>> Hi everyone. This is a lecture on make buy decisions. And the phenomenon we're talking about
here, is one in which as in the growth stage of the company you're as the
entrepreneur trying to decide whether you should really access supply
from the open marketplace through a contractual relationship, or
whether you should be making it yourself. And just to illustrate the phenomenon and
selected a Wharton back startup, the name of the company is called Harry's, and
it's a company that is selling razors and this is a company that we started by
Wharton MBA students in the year 2013, they do a almost surprising move. They buy a 93 year old German
razor blade manufacturing factory. In the year 2014,
they spend a 100 million dollars doing so. This is perhaps not what you would
have expected for a brand new startup. Instead, what you might have expected
is that a company that's entering into the space would instead
be acquiring razors from the open marketplace and
labeling it with their own name on it. And so, the big question becomes, why did
Harry's decide to backward integrate and essentially buy the manufacturing factory? We can offer a couple of different
explanations for this phenomenon, but we're going to be covering that
in this particular lecture. Let me take one step back and talk about
some of the underlying dynamics or economics associated with buying for
others. That is not doing it yourself like what
Harry's is doing, but rather through a contractual relationship, essentially
acquiring the goods from a third party. So, there are a couple
benefits from doing this. So, the first one is that you can
avoid duplicate of investment. There's no reason to reinvent the wheel. If there's a competitive
supply of a good out there. In the case of Harry's because of the
dorth of very high precision razor blade manufacturers in the open market, they
felt like there was no competitive supply, external supply of very high quality,
high precision razor blade. The second reason for
accessing goods from the open marketplace would be this division of
labor according to comparative advantage. So a lot of times, entrepreneurial companies are particularly
good at one activity in a value chain. And that activity is usually something
upstream in the innovation process. They are very good at discovering drugs,
but they are not very good at
delivering those drugs. For example, to the final costumers. And moreover, you could think about
the specialization in the economy in that you could achieve economies of scale
in production if you do a lot of that and that's particularly
true in the downstream. So think about the pharmaceutical
company that is making many of the drugs or the company that's
able to achieve economies of scale, as a result of making many of the good. They're able to utilize their
manufacturing facilities at higher utilization rates. There's less downtime. There are many other reasons to believe
that there's could be economies of scale associated with specialization. A third reason why there could be some
benefits for the entrepreneurial company in accessing a good from a supplier
is that rather than paying for effort you actually pay for the good. So, if you owned something
like Harry's in the case of manufacturing plant, whether or not
that manufacturing plant is making good or bad razor blades,
you're paying for that effort. Whereas if you have
a contractual relationship in terms of only buying razor blades
that meet some quality specification, you're only paying for the goods that
are delivered to your specification. This is particularly important when the
production process itself is uncertain. You may want to then really just pay for
the final good and the results rather than paying for
the effort. Now, there must be some reasons why we
don't always see partnering, and so, it's important to think about
the transaction costs associated with buying that is what if Harry's wants
to buy the manufacturing plant. What are the frictions of doing so, what
are the transactions cost of doing so. So, there are a number of factors
that raise transaction cost. So, let me cover three of them. The specificity of the investment
required to conduct the transaction. What this means is that if an asset is
specific, then it subject to hold up. And so, think about a situation in
which you are a computer programmer and you go to a potential employer,
that employer asks you to learn a specialized programming language,
that programming language is only good for that employer and not good for
the general opened market. That investment in that programming
language is now said to be a specific investment and
that software company is asking you to do. And the problem here is that,
that employer could hold you up. That is, they could renegotiate
the terms of a contract in you as the software programmer whose
learn the specific programming language are subject to hold up because that
asset that you invested in is no longer good in the open market place,
it's no longer redeployable as an asset. So, you've now as the programmer invested
in a very specific asset that has no use elsewhere that raises, that type
of situation raises transaction costs. A second factor that can raise transaction
costs is the complexity of a transaction, and the degree to which it's uncertain. So let me explain this one by giving you
an example of very simple transaction. If we've made a contract that
said that tomorrow by 5 PM, you're getting a deliver
to me one bushel of corn. That is a very simple transaction
because everyone could inspect. Did you or did you not deliver to me
one bushel of corn by 5 PM tomorrow? By contrast, a very complex
transaction would be one in which, we're making a contract in which you,
as a research scientist, agrees to try to, try as hard as you can in discovering a new molecule that could
be the basis of a breakthrough drug. That is a very complex transaction because
I'm not sure what the intermediate markers are that would lead to me to conclude
whether you're trying hard and not succeeding or you're completely
sloughing off or shirking in your responsibilities and you get the same
result, you're not successful. And so, a complex transaction
is one that's marked by many intermediate complexities
in terms of ambiguity. Whether you actually delivered the good or
delivered the effort or not. And that's related to the third
factor that I've listed here. As raising transaction costs. That is,
the difficulty of measuring performance. The simple transaction
cost would be very easy in terms of understanding the performance. Did you deliver the one bushel? Everyone could observe that. The more difficult one
is measuring effort. How do I know that you been trying hard,
do I inspect your laboratory notebooks? Do I have someone checking in on you
to make sure that you're designing experiments appropriately? All those things can get in to
this issue of the difficulty of measuring performance. Now on the other side of defense
factors that lower transaction costs, there's two that I've listed here. The frequency, the duration and
the connectedness of the transactions can themselves lower transaction
cost to the extent that we're contracting very frequently and we're
very connected in our social structure. Let me illustrate this
with another example. Suppose that we have a relationship. I always come to you for
my morning coffee. You're always charging me $1 for
that coffee. If one morning you see me very tired,
I come in, and you say, actually today's coffee
is going to cost ten dollars. Well, you have to weigh this relationship,
because after all it's likely that they're not going to come back to you for
the coffee if you try to expropriate me or take advantage of me this one time because
you saw that I was very very tired. And so you have to wait is it
better to charge the $10 today and risk not having me as
a customer forever more? Or would you rather have that $1 steady
revenue stream into the forseeable future? And to the extent that we are dealing
with each other very frequently. That reputation mechanism could
really enforce this discipline, and also the connectedness
in the social structure. If I'm Facebook friends with nobody and you charge me the $10, you're not
concerned about your reputation, because even if I publicize it on my Facebook
feed, no one's going to really care. Whereas, if I'm connected to a lot
of people, then the fact that you have taken advantage of me, that's all
of a sudden knowable by many, many people. And as a result,
this connection in social structure can enforce your behavior versus not. Now, these concepts that we've talked
about, that is this specific assets, the reputation mechanisms, these are
incredibly important economic concepts. And, there have been, in particular,
two nobel prizes in economics that have been awarded to economists for
precisely these concepts. And so in 1991,
a professor at the University of Chicago, Ronald Coase,
really was awarded this Nobel prize for clarifying this notion
of transaction costs and how that can impact the organization of
economic transactions in the economy. These same concepts were clarified and
extended and were the subject of another Nobel Prize
in economics in 2009 is equally divided between two social scientists one
Elinor Ostrom from Indiana University in Bloomington was awarded for
her notion of economic governance and another to University of California
Berkeley economist Oliver Williamson for his analysis of economic governance and how transaction cost can help
shape boundaries of the firm. And so these concepts of the relationship
between transaction cost and the potential for
cooperation versus forward integration by a firm have been recognized
as incredibly important economic concepts. Now, in terms of the benefits of making
that would be the alternative of buying. So this would be the phenomenon
like what Harry has done which is backward integrating and
forward integrating. So, what are the benefits of doing this? So, one would be the avoiding
the transaction cost, all those headaches of having to worry about contracting
with others or now all of suddened gone. Because you are doing it all of yourself. And so, these notions of control
through your organizational fiat, or being able to exercise your
managerial discretion, in terms of doing things,
is in your control when you control those things,
you also benefit from learning curves. You're doing it yourself, and
you know what not to do in the future, you know what to do in order to drive
out costs, realize the benefits. And, moreover,
you're not as reliant on outsiders. And this is particularly important
if you require specific investment, but investments by outsiders or
a supplier. All right.
And so, one example of this is if you're large enough, if you're Apple, yes,
suppliers are going to be willing to make specific investments of
the type that we discussed before. That is, being subject to hold up. But if you're not large enough,
then you're going to be subject to this possibility of hold up, and
suppliers may not be willing to really make investments that
are specific to your specifications. If you're not large enough which
is logically can be the case, when you're an entrepreneurial
type of company. And so for these reasons of
avoiding transaction costs and taking control, these could lead to
the outcome that we observed at heroes, which is even there would be very
expensive to spend $100 million. To acquire a manufacturing plant, maybe to
avoid all those contractual relationships, maybe this is quite important to do
in order to retain the control and to really not be subject to
challenges of contracting with others in terms of the organization
of your activity. And so
let me summarize the make buy decisions. So, when it's very important to avoid the transaction costs of
the type that we discussed before. You may be more incentivized
to make it yourself. When those transaction
costs are relatively low, in the sense of it's not that
difficult to contract with others, you might want to make use of the
marketplace to source all of your inputs. And so
we've now covered some of the fundamental decisions associated
with this make by type of decision from the advantage point
of the entrepreneurial company.