Hi, I'm Kartik Hosanagar, and
this is a session on digital advertising. Digital advertising or
paid media offers a plethora of options. Before we discuss what these
options are and how to use them, it's useful to first talk about the goals
of an online advertising campaign. For some firms,
the goal of an online advertising campaign might be to profitably acquire
customers for the long term. For another firm, it might be to
support the launch of a product. In which case, the goal might be to maximize customer
acquisitions given some customer budget. And for someone else, it might be that you
already are advertising on other channels. And you are looking to advertise online,
but match the cost per acquisition
of those other channels. It is important to recognize this, because
while digital advertising is more targeted than offline advertising,
it can nonetheless be expensive and not always be profitable, especially
if your product's price point is low. Next let's talk about the difference
aspect of digital advertising. As an advertiser, you have many options. One class of options is
search engine marketing. That is essentially posting ads
on search engines, like Google. Another option is display ads. These might be images or video ads on
premium publishers or online blogs. A third option is social ads. This are ads that might appear
in the social media feeds of your customers on Facebook, on Twitter,
or other social media platforms. In trying to select the right option for
you, it is useful to go through the pros and
cons of each platform. Search engine advertising has
the advantage that is based on consumer search,
meaning the customer is pulling information as supposed to you pushing
information towards the customer. There tends to be high purchase intent, and therefore response rates for search
engine advertising are usually high. In addition,
it's a relatively simple format. Search engine ads usually
involve three lines of text, and can be put together in
a matter of a couple minutes. On the flip side, because it is
a very effective marketing medium, search engine advertising
can also be expensive. Further, you have very limited demographic
information in search engine advertising. Looking at display ads,
their main advantage is their reach. Lots of web sites offer advertising, and therefore this is a format that can
be used to reach lots of consumers. Also there's a lot of ad inventory
available to display advertising. Finally display ads support a range
of formats, including images, videos, and interactive images. The flip side is the high variability in
quality and performance of display ads. Your ad might show up on a premium
publisher like New York Times or it might show up in a small blog, and the
performance depends on where it shows up. Furthermore, display ads tend to be
associated with low customer interest and also poor response rates. Especially with increasing
ad blocking among consumers, display ads do not have the same kinds
of effectiveness that they used to have. Finally, talking about social ads,
the primary advantage of social ads is the range of targeting options
available on social media platforms. For example, you can target
customers based on where they work, what's their job title,
what are their interests, and so on. Secondly, the cost of social media ads can
be lower than other formats such as search engine advertising, especially in
instances such as mobile apps. The flip side of social
media advertising is that it might be harder to quantify
the benefit of advertising in context where the purchase happens
after several customer visits. Such as in e-commerce where
the customer might click on an ad, visit the web site, but come back on
a later day and purchase the product. And it becomes harder to quantify the
actual benefit of that social advertising. I'm now going to discuss each
of these formats in turn. Let's start with search engine marketing. Search engines usually run keyword
options in a continuous basis to sell ad slots available in
search engine result pages. To advertise in these
search engine result pages, advertisers have to follow
three simple steps. The first is to identify keywords
that are relevant to your business. For each of these keywords, one next
designs simple ads and submits a bid which indicates the advertiser's willingness
to pay per consumer click on that ad. Then based on the performance of each ad, advertisers can then refine
their advertising policies. For example, lower their bids for
poor performing ads or keywords and increase their bids for
ads that are doing very well. These three steps of keyword selection,
ad design and bidding, and finally optimization make up the three
key pillars of search engine marketing. First in terms of keyword creation,
advertisers identify a list of keywords that consumers might
type in search engines and that are relevant to the business. For example, an auto dealer might select keywords such
as fine auto dealer in New York City, sports car in New York City,
leasing a car in New York City, and so on. Several tools are available
online that can help advertisers identify keywords that are relevant for
their businesses. For example, one that I often use is
the Google AdWords Keyword Planner. The next step is to design ads. Search engine ads are relatively simple
and involve three lines of text. So there isn't a whole lot of room for
creativity. That said, there are many good
principles worth following. For example, ads that are more precise and specific about their value to the customer
and what makes the advertiser different tend to perform better than ads
that tend to be more general. Similarly, ads that have a clear
call to action do better. In this example on this slide, I have on the left side an ad where
the advertiser is trying to sell stamps. And is asking the customer to click
on the ad and visit the website. The ad on the right is
designed much better. It's more precise and clear about
the value proposition to the customer. It clarifies that the advertiser
has rare stamps for sale. Furthermore, it clarifies that these rare
stamps are from 19th century Europe. And finally it has a clear call to action. It clarifies that if the user buys today,
they get 20% discount. After designing the ad,
the advertiser next needs to select a bid which indicates the advertiser's
willingness to pay for each consumer click on that ad. Good bidding strategies tend to bid high
for keywords that are associated with a high willingness to pay and also have
a lower cost per click on search engines. In the example I've presented here,
a keyword like sports car has a much higher cost per click than a
keyword like Porsche dealer New York City. And key words like leasing
car in New York City and auto insurance in New York City
are somewhere in between. Next, if you look at
the revenues generated, which depends on the probability that
a click converts to a purchase and multiplied by the value of the purchase. We observe that sports
car New York City and Porsche dealer New York City have much
higher value or revenue per click. As opposed to keywords like auto insurance
and lease car for this advertiser. Based on this kind of information, the
advertiser might decide to bid higher for keywords like Porsche
dealer New York City, which are keywords that have
high value and lower costs. As opposed to keywords that have
lower value and higher costs. Estimates for costs associated with
the keywords are readily available from tools such as Google AdWords Tool. And the revenues associated with these
keywords can be calculated based on data that the advertiser is
collecting on an ongoing basis. Once an advertiser submits their
keyword along with the ad and a bid to the search engine, the search
engine then decides which advertisers to show in response to a search query and
how to rank order these advertisers. Now, you might wonder what determines
the rank of your ad on a search engine. You submit a bid, which is an important
determinant of the rank of your ad. However it's not the only determinant. Search engines usually rank ads based on
bid times the quality score of the ad. The quality score of an ad indicates
how often people click on that ad. It depends on the past click
performance of the ad, it depends on the quality of the ad, it depends on the quality of the landing
page associated with the ad, and so on. So it's possible that you may have a lower
bid than the competitor, but be ranked higher than the competitor because
your ad has a higher quality score. Meaning customers gravitate
towards your ad and click on it more often than
they do on the competitor's ad. Therefore it is important to place
attention on good ad design and designing appropriate landing pages for
each ad. For more information on how search
engines rank their ads and how search engines determine how to combine
the quality score of an ad with bids, I've provided a link here to a YouTube
resource that elaborates on this model. Now if you find all of these details too
complex for you to manage on your own, there are several third-party firms that
offer search engine marketing services. One can use these services,
but it is important to assess their performance by
monitoring the right metrics. I usually tend to classify search
engine marketing metrics based on the quantity of exposure, the quality
of exposure and the cost of exposure. In terms of quantity of exposure,
it's useful to ask for every $100 spent,
how many people were shown our ads? In other words, what are the number
of ad impressions per dollar spent? Further in terms of quantity, we might
ask, what proportion of those impressions resulted in clicks, or what is known
as the clickthrough rate of an ad. Together, the number of impressions and
the clickthrough rate give us the total number of clicks on the
ad, meaning the total number of visitors to our website through our search
engine marketing campaign. So that makes up the quantity of exposure. Next, we are interested in
the quality of that exposure. The quality of exposure,
in turn, depends on two metrics. The first is, what proportion of clicks
resulted in outcomes of interest? These outcomes of interest may be
a purchase, or it may be creation of an account on a website or the download
of a research report or things like that. These outcomes are also
known as conversions. The fraction of clicks
that result in conversions is the conversion rate
associated with your ad. So we are interested in the conversion
rates of various ads, and we're of course interested in ads
that have high conversion rates. Next we are interested in the value
of each of these conversions. So for example, for a keyword such as
dental cleaning, the revenue generated for a dentist may be a little bit lower than
for keywords such as dental surgery, where one conversion might
generate higher revenues. And so together these two metrics, that is
conversion rate along with revenues, or value per conversion,
make up the quality of the exposure. And finally we're interested
in cost of exposure, which one can measure in
terms of cost per click. And we can evaluate our different
keywords in terms of the quantity, quality, and cost of exposure, and determine which ones to increase the bids
and which ones to lower the bids. And in terms of assessing the performance
of a search engine marketing firm that's doing this work for us. There are several third
party reports available that benchmark the performance of
advertisers in various industries. And one can compare your performance
relative to these benchmarks to determine whether your search engine marketing
company is doing better than average or worse. Or your internal team is doing
better than average or worse. Moving on from search engines,
let's talk about display ads. Display ads or banner ads,
are usually placed on publisher web sites. In order to place these ads on publisher
web sites, advertisers usually go through ad networks, which are intermediaries
that connect advertisers to publishers. Examples of ad networks include
Google AdWords, which not only shows ads on its own properties, but
also on many third party web sites. Similarly, there's Millennial Media, which is also an ad network that
shows ads on publisher websites. InMobi is an ad network that's focused
specifically on ads on mobile devices. There are several dozen ad networks
that an advertiser can choose from. In determining what ad
network is right for you, it's useful to look at
the reach of each ad network. Meaning, how many potential end consumers
they touch through their publishers. Next, it's useful to look at what
kind of ad inventory they have. Meaning, do they have ads on premium
websites like New York Times or smaller blogs. And also,
are these ads that are top banner ads or smaller ads elsewhere on the website? We can also ask about the audience
composition of these websites. Some ad networks might have a focus
on certain kinds of publishers. For example, there are ad networks that focus mainly on
publishers that create content for women. So if you have a product where your
target customer tend to be women, you might be better off trying to go with
a specialized ad network, like that. There are ad networks that are focused
on technology related content. So, if you have a product that's right for developers, you might prefer
an ad network of that type. And finally, we are interested in
targeting capabilities of the ad networks. Ad networks with better targeting
capabilities can deliver better performance. So we can observe past performance
of these ad networks to determine which ones have the best
data capabilities, which in turn, result in long-term
performance for the advertiser. Finally, let's explore social advertising. Social media platforms like Facebook,
Twitter, and others offer very rich
targeting capabilities. For example, you can target
customers based on their interests. So one might say I'm interested in
customers who have an interest in anime movies, or someone else might say,
I'm interested in showing my ads to customers who are interested
in dieting and so on. You can also target customers
based on their income level, which firms like Facebook infer based
on posts people share on Facebook. You might also target people
based on behavioral profiles. Here again,
social media platforms like Facebook analyze posts submitted by consumers
to create behavioral profiles. For example,
you can target moms of preschool kids or corporate moms and
several other behavioral profiles that are available by
default on platforms like Facebook. And finally, you can also target consumers
based on the name of their employer, their job title, or which educational
institution they attended. Running successful social
advertising campaigns and in fact, all kinds of online advertising campaigns
requires constant experimentation. For example,
on the left side I have a Facebook ad for a children’s educational app
that I created with friends. In this ad, I have chosen certain lines
of text, I've chosen certain images, and I have also made certain decisions about
what kinds of customers to target. Now in order to really get
benefits from these campaigns, I have to ask myself,
what's the right image to show in the ad? I have to ask myself given any image, what's the right targeting message
that the companies to image? I have to ask myself,
what's the right targeting settings, meaning, am I targeting women or men? Am I targeting people who work
in certain kinds of companies? Or am I targeting people
with college degrees or people with a certain income level? And so I have to run experiments
constantly to figure out an ad campaign setting, meaning an image, a message, and
a targeting setting that actually works. In this example,
I have chosen one image on the left side. But I might ask, what happens if I change
the image and use other potential images? On the right hand side, I have shown
several potential images of girls and boys of preschool age that
I could potentially use. So I might run an ad campaign,
multiple ad campaigns, where I show several of these images. And I identify which is the image
associated with the highest level of customer response. Next, given an image, I might ask how I should vary
the text associated with the image. In one ad on the left hand side, I say,
Learn to love learning on The Good Screen. Download our free iPad games for
kids ages three to seven. On the right hand side the message says, Give your little genius
a fun learning buddy. Download our free iPad App for
kids ages three to seven. Another ad text that I might try
might focus on fears that potential customers might have. For example, I might say, Are you
worried your child is falling behind? Here's an iPad app for
children ages three to seven. These are different ad texts and they might elicit different kinds
of responses among customers. And it's important to try
multiple ad texts for any given image to determine what's the
right ad text associated with an image. Similarly, we might change ad targeting
settings as well, and ultimately constant experimentation will help us identify,
what's the right ad, and for whom? In summary, social media
advertising offers several options. It ranges from sponsored search,
display ads, and social ads. Sponsored search have very high response
rates because they're in response to a customer's stated information needs. However, you have very limited demographic
information in sponsored search and also they can be expensive. In contrast,
display ads offer great reach and offer a range of formats including
videos and interactive images. However, they can be highly variable
in terms of their performance and customers are increasingly becoming
blind to a lot of display ads. And finally, social ads offer some of
the richest targeting capabilities. However, social ads might not
generate purchases right away. And quantifying the value of those
social ads might not be easy. In summary, digital advertising
is a data driven activity. Success on this medium requires
constant experimentation. It requires focus on measurement, looking
at the right metrics to figure out how to optimize your ad campaigns
on a continuous basis. Remember that online advertising is more targeted than any other form of
advertising that you might consider. It's also more measurable than any other
advertising medium you might consider. But you have to make the measurability and
the targeting work for you.