Measuring price elasticity is essential to making
good pricing decisions. There are many different
ways to measure price elasticity or
price sensitivity. We can conduct surveys, conduct some controlled
experiments. We can analyze historical data coming from the marketplace, do some AB testing. We'll talk about each of
these as we go forward. But before we do that, I think it's important
to understand what price elasticity means or looks like in
different contexts. The first thing to
think about is, are we talking about response to a permanent price change or a temporary or a
short-term price change. By and large, what we observe in practice is that consumer
response is much higher, much stronger to
short-term price changes than it is to long-term or
permanent price changes. Often research suggests
that it's one order of magnitude higher.
Why is that? When short-term price
discounts are offered, consumers take advantage of it, either they switch brands buy early or sometimes even
stockpile or consume more. There's lot of good
research on this and Professor Gupta's
paper is one of the landmark papers
in this area. In some cases, however, short-term price changes
lead to no change in demand. For example, we observe
that demand is not very elastic to
the price changes of gasoline in the short-term. Why? Because consumers
already own a car. For example, I own an SUV, that's a gas guzzler, unfortunately, and
I can't change that just because the
price of gasoline changes. But if consumers were to
know of uncertainty that gasoline prices will go up and
remain at say, $5 or more. Even someone like me would buy an electric
vehicle more readily. Post product categories, consumers are more responsive to short-term price changes than they are to long-term
price changes. However, there are
some categories where short-term price change may
have no effect on demand. But only if there is a
permanent price change will there be an
effect on demand. It's important for us to understand the context
we are measuring price elasticity and what price change we
are talking about. Similarly, it's
important to recognize, are we talking about the response of the entire
market or a segment level? Or are we talking about an
individual response to price? Market level responses to
price are usually smoother. At the end of the day, it's the aggregate over
many consumers. It becomes a smoother function. At the individual
level because we're often buying in discrete units, say I buy either one toothpaste or two tubes of toothpaste. The response can be
discrete and we need different types of
statistical methods when the response is discrete, 1,2,0 and so on. Before we get into the
specifics of measurement, I think it's important for us
to understand the context, whether it's short-term
or long-term, whether it's consumer-level or its market level before we start using the
different approaches. There are many different ways to measure price sensitivity. We'll talk about three of
these methods in more detail. But even though there are thousands of methods
being used outside, when you come down to it, there are essentially
four types of methods. These four types
of methods can be understood by a simple
two-by-two table. The two dimensions
of the table are, what are we measuring and
how are we measuring? If the variable being
measured is actual purchase or is it people's intentions
to buy or their preferences? The second variable
or second dimension is conditions of measurement. Are we measuring
response to price in a natural setting or in a controlled setting or
an experimental setting? Let's look at at
least one or two of these possible boxes. If you are measuring actual
purchase in natural settings, we are essentially analyzing
historical sales data. It could be aggregated,
could be individual. But these are actual data coming from the market in
a natural setting. There are methods to do that. And we'll look at
one of those methods using an example of a
package delivery service. Another approach could be, we measure people's
intentions and preferences, but in a controlled setting. A lab experiment
could be an example, or trade-off analysis could be an example using
conjoint type analysis. Different methods, but
at the end of the day, they fall into four
distinct buckets. Those buckets are
defined by what we're measuring and the
conditions of measurement. Let's start by looking at our first method and
put it in a context. Let's assume a company
like FedEx is trying to determine how consumers will respond to the price of
a new delivery service. I'll talk more about why I'm
using the name FedEx here. Let's start with a
simple approach. This is not an approach
that the company used, but let's think of this
as a possible approach. Start with a representative
sample of 150 buyers. Administer a survey to five randomized groups of 30
representative consumers. What we're doing is splitting these 150 potential
representative buyers into five groups of 30 each. To each of these groups, we'll describe the
product in-depth, to each group we also state the potential competitive
offerings and their prices and then provide any additional useful information
of the product concept. Even though we may not have
the co-product as yet, we can describe the
product as a concept. Then to each of these groups, we asked the question, would you buy this new
service if its price we're, say $10 to one of the groups, $11 to another group, $12 to a third group, $13 to the fourth group, and $14 to the fifth group. Each of the groups are seeing
the same description of the product but are responding
to a different price. One group responds to
$10 and says yes or no and we tabulate those data. Let's count the number of
yes responses in each of these groups and plot
the response function, which may be a representative
demand function. Let's say the group
that responded to $14, 10 percent of them said yes. The group that responded to $10, 50 percent of them said yes. What you see is effectively
a demand function with units on the y-axis and
price on the x-axis. At a price of 10, 50 percent said yes, price of 14, only 10 percent
said yes. What do we have? What we have here is
a reference ready, what we might call as
a demand function. When I discuss this
approach in the class, I know it has many weaknesses so the first question I
asked the students is, what do you think are the
strengths of this approach? When they start
thinking about it, they come up with a
number of strengths. It's easy to do this, Professor, it's
inexpensive, it's fast. At the end of the day, it
gives us a demand function, may not be great, but we
at least get something. Then we start thinking
about the weaknesses. What is it that this approach cannot do that we
would like it to do? Well, the first answer that
typically comes up is, Professor, it doesn't
account for competition. Well, it did account for
competition but it didn't account for what will happen if competition change their prices. We did mention in the survey what the prices of
competing products were. But this method will
not be able to assess anything if competition
prices were changed. Then another
important limitation here is it doesn't account for how many
units people will buy, only whether or
not they will buy. It gives you a yes, no kind of an answer, will we buy, will we not buy. But at the end of the
day, the demand function is not whether just
you will buy or not, how many units will you buy. It doesn't give us any
indication of that. Then finally, a lot of people, a lot of students will point to the fact that it is
measuring intentions, is measuring an intent to buy, not their actual
purchase behavior. It's not looking at
actual purchase behavior. I think that's a good point, but many market research
methods often use intentions to buy or preferences,
not actual behavior. I think a broad question not just related to
pricing research, but to a lot of
market research is, how do we create a
better relationship between intent to buy
and actual purchases? Or in other words,
how can we strengthen the relationship between
intentions and behavior? That's an important concept
that has been studied in research and it's worthwhile looking at this in a
little more detail. Let's say we asked the
question to a group of people, what is the ideal relationship between intentions and behavior? If you have intentions on the x-axis and behavior
on the y-axis, what are you looking for that would make your life easiest? Most will say it is a 45
degree line pointing upwards, starting at the origin
pointing upwards. What does it mean? If people say they'll surely
buy they'll buy. If people say they won't buy, they won't buy, 45 degree line. But then you ask yourself, does it have to be
a 45 degree line? Does it have to be
exactly pointing upwards? Suppose it's exactly
the opposite. Let's say, if you have a friend who every time when he or
she says a stock will go up, it goes down, and every time he says or she says the
stock will go down, it goes up, is he or she
a good friend to have? The answer is absolutely because whatever
is the prediction, the real-world is exactly
opposite to that, is not a 45 degree
line pointing upwards, it's a 45 degree line
effectively pointing downwards. What you're looking for
between two variables, for one variable to become a
good predictor of another, is not a 45 degree
line, but a stable, predictable relationship
that persists. If we can find that
relationship in advance, any variable can become a good predictor of
another variable. Once we understand this concept in depth and how
to implement it, we can use market research, not just pricing research, but other types of market
research also very effectively. Let's look at an example coming from a company that
makes routers. Let's say, a major
manufacturer of routers is thinking of launching
a new G-class router. The company conducts a survey
of 100 potential buyers and ask them on a 1-5 scale
their intent to buy, and those responses
are given in column 3. What does that mean? Fifteen people said one, 20 people said two, 40 people said three,15
people said four, and 10 people said five. Five meaning surely buy, 15 will most likely
buy, and so on. Let's say these are
the results that you got in the first survey that are given in column 3.
We don't end there. Let's say, this company
launches router G. We ask ourselves, what did people actually do? Those are your
results in column 4. How many actually
bought the router? Those 15 who said one, which means they will
not buy, nobody bought. Those who said two, out of the 22 of them bought, out of the 40 who said
three on a 1-5 scale, five of them bought. Out of the 15 who said
four on a 1-5 scale, three of them bought,
and out of the 10 who said five on the five-point
scale, three of them bought. What do we have next? What we have is their
conversion rates, and those conversion rates are zero percent for
those who said one, 10 percent of those who
said two, and so on, and 30 percent of
those who said five. Let's keep those out there. That's what happened
actually based on what they said in their intentions. Now let's think about this company launching
an N-class router, which is a higher N-router. It again conducts a survey of 100 potential buyers and ask their intention to
buy on a 1-5 scale, and those data are
reported in column 5. What are those data? Out of 100, 10 of them said one, and just going down the column, 20 of them said five. What do we do with these data? Well, if we didn't have
the G-class router, we'd probably just
say maybe let's take everyone who said five, and that becomes our forecast for how many people will buy. Some market research companies, they use what they
call as the top box. Everyone who said five will buy. Others might say, for different
product categories, let's use top box and a half. Let's say, 20 plus half
of those who said four, and that becomes our
demand forecast. A better way would be to look at previous conversion numbers. What fraction of those who said one bought the G-class router? Well, we know that is zero. What fraction of those who said two bought eventually
the G-class router? But there was 10 percent. If we use those percentages, what we have is in
the last column, our forecast demand for the N-class router based on
previous conversion rates. What we can keep doing is then updating our responses
from N-class, G-class. We can aggregate them, and see what are the
typical conversion rates. What this does is helps us improve the relationship
between intentions and behavior because we have seen the past relationship between intentions and behavior
for similar products. In other words, what
we are doing is we are codifying our past experience, and using that codified past experience to better
link intentions and behavior. More details are in the paper by Professors Jamieson and Bass, and for those of you who are interested can read that paper.