I'm Karl Ulrich. I'm a professor at the Wharton School, and
this session is on sales partnerships. I want to start with a story. In 2004, I started a company with a group
of MBA students called TerraPass, and the big idea behind TerraPass was that we would remediate the environmental
impact of driving you car. You could join TerraPass for about $70 or
$80 per year, and TerraPass would, on your behalf, buy enough wind power
to offset fossil fuel used out a power plant that would be roughly equivalent to
the gasoline you would burn in your car. That was the idea behind TerraPass. Now, when we came out of the course,
we had a few hundred customers, and we thought the business could
potentially be something real. And so we raised a little money,
we spun out the company, and we got started in growing that startup. We had some successful PR, and
we attracted, as I say, a few hundred customers, and those customers
that bought our product were very loyal. They liked it quite a lot,
and they told their friends. The problem was that only about
5% of the population was at all interested in the product. 95% of people, when they heard that idea,
thought it was pretty silly. And so the challenge for
us was how do we acquire just those customers that are really
interested in our product? How do we cut through the noise and reach only those who are most likely to
resonate with the message of our product? So in effect, how could we acquire
customers for TerraPass efficiently, and that is at lower cost. Now, we had tried quite
a few different things, but the initiative that really broke
through for us was sales partnerships. And the idea behind a sales
partnership is to ask the question, who already has access to your target
customer, and in what way can you add value for that partner who has
access to your target customer? Now, of course, you can just pay them, that is you could share the revenue of
your product with the sales partner. But there are often other ways
in which you can add value. For instance,
your product can bring a certain luster. In our case, an environmental luster to a product
that otherwise lacks that attribute. Now, typically, what we're talking
about in sales partnerships Is not a conventional retail partner. So for instance, if you make bicycles,
and you go looking for a retailer that sells bicycles
to sell your product through, that's a conventional
retailer relationship. It isn't really what I mean
by a sales partnership. What I'm talking about here
is a partnership for someone that is selling something else or has some
other relationship with your costumer, and you're basically riding along with them
in order to access their target costumer. Let me make this concrete for you with three examples that we did
in sales partnerships with TerraPass. The first was with Ford Motor Company. The insight we had was that when somebody
is buying a car, they're already thinking about options and additional accessories
that they might buy to go with the car. What if, at the point of purchase, we could offer a TerraPass to
go alongside a new vehicle? And the benefit proposition
would be that TerraPass mitigates the environmental
impact of owning that vehicle. Now, we thought, maybe this would be
particularly attractive to those who were buying cars that have relatively
poor fuel economy, or maybe it would be appropriate for
those who were hesitant to even own a car. But if they could get
a TerraPass with that car, it would mitigate an objection
to owning the car. And we therefore thought that might be
quite attractive to either car dealers or the automobile manufacturers. In fact, we were able to establish
a partnership with Ford Motor Company called Green Miles. And the program behind,
the idea behind that program was that someone buying a Ford
automobile could buy a TerraPass, and TerraPass would mitigate the environmental
impact of driving that car. And as part of that exchange,
TerraPass would share some of the revenue from the TerraPass purchase with Ford, and
Ford would provide the email address and customer information of their customer,
and TerraPass could then have access to that customer for the lifetime
of the relationship with the customer. So that was one example of a partnership. A second example was a deal
that we did with Expedia. Expedia is a travel retailer. It sells airline tickets,
hotel rooms, that sort of thing. The idea behind the Expedia deal was
that during the checkout sequence, after someone had purchased
an airline ticket, they would be offered the possibility
of purchasing a TerraPass certificate that would mitigate
the environmental impact of that flight. So you would be buying enough
environmental remediation to cover the fossil fuel use of that flight, and
that would be done during the check out sequence on Expedia in the same place
where Expedia offers you things like airport packing or rental cars or theater
tickets during the check-out sequence. That partnership turned out to be
fantastically successful for TerraPass. I believe TerraPass acquired close to
a million customers as a result of that Expedia deal, and
something like 2% of those who checked out on Expedia after buying an airline ticket
opted in to buy the TerraPass add-on. So we acquired those customers
as a result of that transaction. That partnership brought
us exposure to millions and millions of customers that we otherwise
wouldn't have been able to reach. The benefit for Expedia, in addition to the percentage
of the revenue that we shared with them, was that it mitigated an environmental
concern that many customers had. And so it polished the environmental
attributes of the Expedia product. It made the airline ticket feel
more environmentally friendly, and thus mitigate a risk factor for
Expedia that consumers would consider flying to be too
environmentally costly to purchase. The last deal that we did as
a sales partnership was with Bloomsberry Chocolate, and what we did was we bundled a TerraPass
certificate with a chocolate bar. And so the idea was that when
you purchased a chocolate bar, a Bloomsberry chocolate bar,
you also got the equivalent of one day's mitigation of your
environmental footprint. And so to think about that, TerraPass would mitigate the environmental
impact of your living for a day. That is the average driving,
air travel, household energy use, embodied embodied and products and
service for the average American. TerraPass would mitigate one day's worth in conjunction with purchasing
that chocolate bar. And for that,
Bloomsberry charged an extra $2 US on the purchase price
of that chocolate bar. Those chocolate bars were sold through
the Whole Foods grocery retailer in the United States, and I believe
we sold about a half a million units of that chocolate bar in conjunction
with the TerraPass product. So another example of a sales
partnership that allowed TerraPass to reach customers it wouldn't
otherwise have been able to reach. So in some, the advantage of
sales partnerships is that your partner already has
access to your target segment. So you target partners who already
have a customer profile or customer segment that closely matches
the segment that you're looking to reach. And then you have to think about what is
it you can offer the partner that makes it attractive for the partner to
want to bundle your product or to want to refer their customers to you. In addition to money,
which is an obvious benefit, you just share some of the revenue
with the sales partner. You have the opportunity to bring some
brand attributes to that partner. So in the case of TerraPass,
we brought the environmentally friendly brand attribute to brands
that really wanted to have that. For instance, to an automaker and
to the seller of airline tickets. Sales partnerships have the potential
to dramatically expand your reach and accelerate your growth beyond
what you can do on your own.