Welcome back. So, in previous modules, I have
discussed a bit about why hiring is so important to startups and
the huge differences in talent between top employees and mediocre employees and
the influence on your company. So I want to spend a little
time today talking to you about how you actually think about hiring talent
and retaining talent in your startup. And again, getting this stuff right is
absolutely critical to the success of your company, but
it's also really hard to do. And we're not going to be able
to cover everything today but I'll give you a good start in terms of
thinking about how you do start up hiring. This is especially important
because most entrepreneurs have not done a lot of hiring in the past. Or if they have they've been
part of an interview process and haven't really actively run searches. So there's a lot to learn and
a lot to think about here and we're going to cover some of that today. And again, we'll go through the basics. There's a lot more information you can
find out about hiring and startups but this will give you a good
starting point to work from. I think the best way to introduce
the importance of hiring and the reason why you, as an entrepreneur,
are so important when you make a hiring decision is to talk about some
interesting research done by Smart in 1998 looking at hiring techniques
in a startup environment. In this case what Smart
was looking at was how venture capitalists chose which
entrepreneurs to work with. So high uncertainty environments,
you're looking for a team that's flexible for the future, the
kinds of things that you are looking for in the very early days
of a startup company. What this study found was that there were
five basic techniques that people used in order to be able to interview people
in these environments, the airline pilot, the infiltrator, the artist,
the sponge, and the prosecutor, and I want to talk about those techniques
because I think they'll resonate with you. If you've been hired before, you've probably seen some
of these techniques in use. And what's nice about this particular
study is it can tie the use of these techniques to actual percentage outcomes. So in the case of venture capital,
as you'll hear more in the venture capital module, VC is looking to
maximize something called the IRR, or internal rate of return, and generally,
sort of over 40 or 50 is the goal. So what's nice about this, as you'll see, we can actually tie the interview
techniques to IRR outcomes and get a sense of which ones are more
effective or less effective. Again, this isn't the end all or
be all of this sort of research. But I think gives you a nice view of the
kind of styles involved in doing hiring. So the first style is the artist. So the artist is somebody who
doesn't really believe in data, they believe that they're really
good judges of character. They're like an art critic who can look
at something and say this is good, this is bad and judge it in
the sort of large scale way, and so you don't need a lot of information. You're making gut decisions based
on your knowledge of people. The IRR for this approach is 25%,
which is a low IRR. It's not really effective and
you should avoid it. So we're not very good at this kind
of conceptual judgment of people. The second technique that was
identified in the study was the sponge. The sponge is someone who seeks
data in all kinds of ways, they don't have a plan on how
they're going to use this data, but it might do testing of the potential
candidates, they might ask them for work samples, they might try them on the job,
they might give hypothetical questions. They might do reference checks. The hope is that they're getting
some kind of information out of this long search process that
give them something useful. Again, the IRR in this
approach is quite low. 20%, so even worse than the artist. So this just gathering
data with no purpose doesn't actually help you very
much in terms of determining what sort of outcomes you'll get
from the hiring process. The third approach that was
identified was a prosecutor. So if you've been
interviewed by a prosecutor, you'd certainly know a prosecutor is
somebody who aggressively questions candidates, tries to get them to break on
the stand as it were like a lawyer would. So always questions them,
interrupts them, and basically tries to put them under
stress to see how they operate and get them to break down and
give you the right answer. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this prosecutor
approach also is not a very good one. In fact, it's the worst of the approaches,
10% IRR on average. So this idea that I'm just trying to
throw you into a stressful situation and get results doesn't
seem to work very well. Instead, there were two approaches
that worked much better. The first of these was the spy,
or the infiltrator. So the spy, in this case,
was limited to a very small set of VCs because the spy approach involves
basically living with the candidate. So the spy would travel with
the candidate to client meetings. They'd sit with them every day,
they'd share hotels with them, and over the course of many days
really learn how this works. Surprisingly, this approach is terrific,
100% IRR it's very effective in picking the right kind of
candidates in entrepreneurial setting. Unsurprisingly though this
takes a huge amount of time and is very difficult to do, so
it's not something most people could do. So if you can afford to live with and
travel with your job candidates, great. But that means you going to have a lot
less job candidates to work with and it's not very practical. Instead, the best approach seems to
be what we call the airline pilot. The airline pilot, like the pilots you
see in the picture, depend on checklists. They know everything they want
to accomplish in advance and they stick with that plan moving forward,
checking things off on the list. So, are they looking for
someone who has previous sales experience? Are they looking for
someone who has this programming language? And they're looking to find those
characteristics and check that off. IRR here is 80%, which is great. Maybe not quite as good as that
spy infiltrator approach, but still very high, and
the resulting workload is much lower. So, this is probably the most powerful
technique, and other research in HR and hiring has backed up the idea
that checklist based approaches where you set up your
expectations in advance and then look for
those in the interview process are best. So you know you should use
the airliner pilot approach, how do you actually do this? What you want to do is start by coming up
with a score card, this is your checklist. In the score card approach what
you'll do is you'll go through everything you need for this job and
you'll write down these features. You're going to be specific, you're not going to say I want
someone who's entrepreneurial. You're going to think
about what that means. Does that mean they have
experienced as an entrepreneur? Does that mean they're taking
charge in uncertain situations. Whatever it is,
that fact goes on your score card. And that's going to be something you're
going to look for in the interviews. You also need to coordinate with your
other interviewers both to create this score card and also to set up the actual
structure you're going to use. You want to make sure people
ask you different questions. All using the same shared score card and
then you have a formal approach you use across every candidate
that you're interviewing. So that way you can actually compare them. If everyone's improvising
off the top of their head, you won't have any of that
comparison to work with. Then you want to think about
some sort of screening question. It might help you gather
some basic information and that could be a luxury or phone call. But, the key issue when you start meeting
people in this informal settings, before doing a formal interview
is the danger of homophily. We've talked about homophily
in prior lectures. Homophily is the idea that you
like people who are like you, that birds of a feather flock together. So homophily means that
you are more drawn to and more likely to be friends with
people who share your ethnicity, who share your background, who share
your social class, your education level. And as a result,
you tend to have a natural connection, feel good about people
that are most like you. And that can actually hurt both diversity
of the company, which can be helpful for innovation, but also makes it so you hire
from a much more narrow band of people because you hire based on liking rather
than hiring based on these scorecards. So you have to be careful to be cognizant
of the fact that you're going to have this homophilic reaction to people and you shouldn't let this sort of
feeling connection blind you to the characteristics you're looking for
in an employee. An interesting question you might want to
ask in these sort of screening discussions because they tend to be full of lots of
people telling you the answers you want to hear is what stuff people
don't like to do at a job and that might be revealing in some cases. You also might want to
consider assigning pre-work. Pre-work is anything that you do
prior to coming into the interview. So it's very common in technical fields
where you might ask someone to solve a problem either before the interview
in the interview setting where you end up at asking people to solve a math
problem or solve a programming problem. But you could ask this at almost any job. So a typical pre-interview might be asking
somebody to go examine a competitor store and comeback with comments, or examine
your store and comeback with comments for the interview about things that
can be improved or made better. What pre-work has done right,
what's great about it is you get actual information from somebody
about how they actually work. And hopefully it helps the person who's
being interviewed as well because they get to see what the job is actually like. If the pre-work is assigned properly, it
will give them an experience about what, it will be like at the job that
increases retention long term, increasing your hiring decision. And we doubt people who are not
interested in the first place. So this can be a really
powerful technique but you have to spend work to make sure you're
pre-work is good, because there's nothing more depressing than pre-work where
somebody just have to do busy work. It's not useful to anyone and
they feel exploited. So make sure you do your pre-work properly
that it could be a powerful technique to use in many cases. In the interview itself one
thing that often is hard for founders is that you
can't interview alone. You need 3- 5 people to conduct
the interviews because you need multiple points of view. If you don't have 3-5
people in your company, that means you may have to pull in family
or friends or outsiders who help you out. Especially if you don't know
something like technology and you're looking to do
something around hiring. Technology person,
you don't have experience in that, you're going to need to either
find a friend who can help you or pay some sort of outside consultant
to help you evaluate the situation. When you actually do the interview, the most powerful predictor future
performances is past performance. So I strongly recommend avoiding
doing clever questions like asking people how they'd weigh a 747. Or brain teasers about light bulbs and
cake and things like that that you might see or
have heard about in puzzle interviews. Those are not predictive
of future success. And they're kind of a waste
of everyone's time. So instead, you want to think
about historical questions. Ask people to walk through every job. Ask them to tell you about a time in
each job where they did something. So tell me about a time you
showed leadership under pressure. And then don't just look to tell you
the story make it an interactive conversation where you start asking
them questions about what they did, why they did it,
why did the job not work the way they did, why did they have to step of a show of a
leadership where they were junior person. What did their boss do? How do people react to
them being a leader? So you're probing to get real answers and
that way, even if people have prepared speeches that
they give, you're going to push past that and get real details on what they
did in their prior their work. You potentially want to ask hypothetical
questions or behavioral questions, things like what company do you admire? And then once they give you that, how
would you compete against that company? You might want to ask them how they'd
handle a situation in the future that you think they'll encounter, but
make sure you're crafting those well. And again, make it part of a conversation
where you're trying to get at the factor on your checklist. And you're trying to figure
out the answer there. You're going to make the experience
as great and fair as possible. Remember, for a start up,
most people who get to know you, especially the very early days, will
be people you actually interviewed and that have gone back out into the world. What can be a problem is, if these people
feel like you were treating them roughly or not fairly, they're going to
badmouth you to other people. What you ideally want is everybody
who's left your job after an interview could really have wanted to work for
your company, and be disappointed but understanding
about why they didn't get that job. So, it's important to try and make that
experience great for everyone involved. Once you've interviewed everybody, your
job then is to go through the checklist and objectively decide whether or
not you want to hire someone. And no conditional, well,
he's the best candidate and she wasn't very good, and so
therefore we're going to go with him. You want actual enthusiasm. You want people to make sure that
people are on the checklist, right, and evaluating based on the checklist,
and that you're getting clear and objective answers about why
someone should be hired, and then you make a clear go and
no go decision. Once that happens, close hard. You've spent a lot of
effort finding someone, now you bring them in as best you can. So that can be emailing them,
having people from the company go out And meet them for dinner or for lunch. It can be asking them what kind of office
chair they want, guilting them, whatever it takes to bring the people in the door
once you've done this hiring process. So this is a really quick
introduction to interviewing. That can be a very powerful set
techniques that you can use. There's obviously a lot more there and we actually have working classes doing
hierarchy things like that as well. But this will give you start
in entrepreneur hiring and helps you avoid some
of the major mistakes. Of course hiring isn't the only piece
you also need to maintain performance. And that means you have to do something
that often for people who've worked at large companies feels unnecessary, which
is have a real performance review process. So you think, we've got ten
employees who've got five employees, why do we need a performance
review process? Well both for legal reasons but
also because this is actually how you help people get better at their job, and
you can't just assume we're adults here, we're all going to do well together,
you need to actually go through a process. So performances should not be
like a once a quarter thing, they should be 360 degrees, which means
everyone's reviewing each other, so it's not just formal feedback, and
it should be 365 days a year, so 360/365. You should be constantly
giving feedback to each other. That feedback needs to be specific, so
not I feel like you're not fitting in but very specific issues about you don't
seem to be helping the company with our building a culture and
let's talk about how that works. And if there's problems you
offer him with real steps. So what's the next step we take,
going forward? And then you also need to make sure
you're reviewing yourself, right? So that's thinking back and
having people review you, having people be self reflective on their
own jobs and giving you feedback that way. So you need to build the culture of
feedback early on in your company. And if you're going to need to fire
someone, and you probably will, you want to fire as quickly as possible,
but you also want to follow some very key steps, so the four Fs,
which is that feedback In terms of firing. It should be frequent, formal,
forward-looking, and filed. What does that mean? Frequent means that,
as you get closer to firing someone, you're having more frequent
feedback with them. You're talking to them regularly. Formal in that you sit down in a room, and
you formally deliver this information. It's not an informal conversation. Forward looking, which is you need to
be able to do this sort of thing or your job is in jeopardy. So tell people what they need to do in
the future, don't just criticize them for the past. And filed, which means that
everyone is signed off, so you'll actually present a formal note
to somebody saying this is a problem. I agree I need to change this,
have them sign it, have you sign it,
have that paper put away. This helps you build up a process
that if you need to let go of someone you can do that. For the people who don't need to be let
go of, they actually get performance feedback that's useful, and it's very
important to keep the process fair. So if people feel like
the process of firing is fair, they are much less likely to sue or
blacken the name of your company then, if they feel like the things are arbitrary
so, your goal is to make sure everybody knows when to stand with the company and
have the feedback they need to improve. So, both the hiring and firing process
can be complicated but, spending some effort at the beginning to do them right
and according to the evidence we have is really powerful a way to get you
start off the ground correctly.