In this module, we learn another method to measure
maximum willingness to pay. This method uses a technique
called conjoint analysis. This technique was developed and perfected at the Wharton School
by Professor Paul Green. We shall use a
hypothetical example to convey the essence
of this approach. Let's think of a company
that is in the process of designing different
versions of an MP3 player. They've already done the R&D and now it's a matter of
product design and pricing. The questions in front
of them are what features to add and
what not to add. The point that we are going
to focus on mostly in this module is how
you price each. The specific question
we shall focus on is, what is the maximum
willingness to pay for each model under consideration, and then how does it vary across customers so that we can make
a good pricing decision. The specific techniques used are conjoint analysis
and regression analysis. If you are not familiar with the foundations
of these methods, you should gain familiarity by going through the
optional modules that explain the foundations
of each of these methods. The approach starts with step 1, and that is to
identify and agree on attributes important
to the customer. In this particular exercise, we agreed that the six things that are important to
the customer are, a, the brand name, the storage capacity of
the MP3 player, battery, how long does the battery last, is the display color
or monochrome, is there a warranty
or no warranty, and then how it is priced? In this particular example, we were working
with a company that knew that these were the six things important
to the customer. But if you don't know
what is important to the customer in terms of
determining willingness to pay, you might want to do
some focus groups. This was not done in this
particular exercise. The next step is to agree on the ranges and levels
of each attribute. For example, what will
be the maximum capacity? What will be the
minimum capacity? In this particular example, the maximum was 5,000
and the minimum is 50. These were the
technological limits at that point in time
to the capacity. The minimum 50 was used because
anything less than that, the customer would not
want that product. Same way for battery
life, 2-18 hours. Display is either
color or monochrome. Warranty is either
none or one year. We consider two prices for the conjoint study,
$99 and $249. We'll talk about this
a little bit later. There are many brands
in the market, but we club them in this
example into two groups. Just a brand name
called Orange and then clubbed everything else
together as generics. Even though those other
brands are not generics, they were good brand names, we just put them in one group for this particular exercise. Now, in this
particular exercise, we also use just two levels
for each attribute and assume that the willingness
to pay would be linear in between those two. Between 50 and 5,000, the willingness to pay
will vary linearly. If you are not comfortable
with that assumption, then you must choose
a third level, say maybe 2,000 songs. But as this was a
preliminary exercise, we agreed that it should
be just two levels, 50, 5,000, and linear interpolation would be possible and acceptable. A key part of a
conjoint task is asking respondents to rate
different profiles. What you have to do next
is to create a number of product profiles that the
respondents can rate. What do you mean by
a product profile? A product profile is a holistic
description of a product, often along with a picture. One product profile could
be the brand is Orange, the storage is capacity
is 5,000 songs, the battery is 18 hours, the display's color,
there is no warranty, and the price is 249. Similarly, you could create
other profiles and ask the consumers to
either rank order, rate, or do paired comparisons. The third step is also, before we do the analysis, to code these profiles. That's pretty straightforward. One level is coded as one and the other level
is coded at zero. Wherever a profile
creates the brand Orange, we code it as one, and wherever the profile
is a generic brand, we coded at zero. Same with capacity; 5,000 is coded as one and
capacity 50 is coded at zero. Let's look at some
specific examples. Profile A is Orange brand, 5,000 songs, 18 hours
of battery life, color display, no warranty, 249. It'll be coded as 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0 because there
is no warranty, and price 249 is 1. Same way example profile
B would be generic, 50 songs two hours, monochrome display, no
warranty and a price of 99, and you can see that
will be coded as all zeros because that's
all at the lower level. So that's how you code
each of these profiles. The next step is, agree on how to collect the
data from the respondents. Conjoint experts suggest many different ways
to collect data. For example, you could
have a respondent rank order various
profiles from 1-10. You could also give them
pairs of profiles and say, "Between these two profiles,
which one do you like?" Or you could ask them to
rate these profiles on, say, a scale of 1- 100. Let's say you are giving each
respondent five profiles. You can ask them to rate
this on a scale of 1-100. There is a lot of discussion
and science behind what is the right method
to use in what context. For the purpose of this, we shall not go into
details of that. If you want to learn
more about it, you can learn more about it by reading more about conjoint. In this particular example, we used ratings as
a way to assess customers or respondents
likings of different profiles. A key question in any conjoint study that
we need to answer is, "How many product profile
should a customer rate?" When I ask this
question to my class, I start by asking, "What is the maximum
number of profiles possible in this
particular exercise?" The question does
generate some discussion, but not that much. Very quickly, students recognize that the maximum number of profiles is 2^6, which is 64. Why? Because we have
six attributes, each has two levels, so you can get 64
possible combinations. Then I asked the question, "What if I asked you
to rate 64 profiles, what would you say?" And I asked this question
of a specific student. Sometimes I hear the
answer, "Professor, it'll be too much, too taxing." To which I agree. But often one of the
students will say, "Professor, why don't you
ask someone else to do it?", Pointing to another
student in the class, this invariably generates
quite a bit of laughter. Then I asked the question, "What is the minimum number of profiles we must
ask the respondents to rate so that we
know something about the value of each of
that six attributes? " This is a
thought-provoking question that leads to many
different answers. Some say 10, others say two, yet others say 12, and some give different answers. And I think each has their
own reason for suggesting. For example, those who suggest two would say, "Professor, you can have one
profile where there are all zeros and another profile
where there are all ones. So the lowest level in each and the second profile would be
the highest level in each." And then I think the
question you ask is, "How would you know
something about each of the attributes
which is needed here?" So the correct answer
here is seven. You need a base case
which is all zeros. And then six other cases where one of the
attributes is high, and the rest are low. Think about another context. Suppose you have six
light bulbs in a room, and you want to assess how bright is each one
of those lamps. How would you go about doing it? You would first probably
turn all the lamps off, and see how dark the room is. Then, you will turn one lamp on and then see how
bright the room is. Turn that off, turn
the other one on. So you'll have to do
seven trials like that. Those are the seven
profiles you need to learn something independently
about each one of those attributes, and how it affects the
consumer's willingness to pay. I think the next question is probably the most
interesting one, is, "How do we decide how many profiles we need
beyond the minimum?" Or another way to
ask the question is, "Under what assumptions
about consumer behavior might we say that seven
profiles are enough?" This again, generates
quite a bit of discussion in the class. I think the answer to
this is seven will be enough if we can assume that the willingness to pay across
attributes is independent. What does that mean? For example, if a respondent's
willingness to pay for warranty does not depend
on the brand and so on, then seven profiles
would be sufficient. But this is rarely the case of priori or at least we are not confident that this willingness to pay are independent
across attributes. In some cases, maybe warranty willingness to
pay depends on the brand. In other case, the
willingness to pay for capacity may depend
on the brand. So whatever we are
uncertain about, we must account for
that in the number of profiles we give to
our respondents. The key question we
ask ourselves is, what are the interactions
we are not so sure about? These are the interactions
that we must include. For example, if we
are not sure about the interaction between
warranty and brand, then we must have an
eighth profile where both brand and warranty are one. Same way, if we
are not sure about the interaction between
warranty and capacity, we should include
the ninth option where both warranty and capacity are also both at one and not just each other
separately being at one. There are other considerations also that we must keep in mind, and those can be
learned by learning more about conjoint analysis. In this particular example, we had each respondent
rate 16 profiles. In this table, you can see the data collected
from one respondent. Let's go into details of this. Each respondent
rated 16 profiles. So this table has 16 rows, each row reflecting one profile. Let's focus on the first one. Profile 1 as brand 1, which means it was orange, price 1, 249, capacity 1, 5,000 songs, battery life 1, which is 18 hours, warranty 0 means no warranty, display 1, which
is color display. This particular respondent gave a rating of 73 to this profile. This is the profile you had
seen in the picture earlier. Same way, this
respondent and each of the respondents was given
16 profiles to rate, and the profiles are
reflected in the rows 1-16. In the last column
which says rating is the rating given
by the respondent to each of those profiles, first one being 73 and the
last profile rating was 18. The next question we
ask ourselves is, how do we analyze this data? Those of you who
are familiar with regression analysis will
be able to see that we can think of ratings as
the y-variable and each of the attributes
columns as the x's. This is exactly what we do. Once again, if
you're not familiar with the regression analysis, please look at the
optional module, regression analysis, before
you go forward with this. What we're doing here is
estimating the person's utility. The utility is measured as ratings and the drivers
of utility are brand, capacity, battery, display, warranty, and price. You are estimating
a regression model where there is a base
level of utility, Alpha, and then the drivers of utility coming from
brand, capacity, battery, display, warranty, and prize, which are
the x-variables. So when we run this
regression of ratings against the six attributes and allowing for
a constant term, this is what we get. The estimate of the
intercept is 30.9, brand 25.7, price 33.6
with a negative sign. Why? Because 1 is
249 and 0 is 99. So a person, on average, we expect them to give a lower
rating when the price is higher than when
the price is lower. Capacity 18.8, battery 15.5, warranty 7.0, and display 14.2. In other words, what this model or estimates
are telling us is that the average utility
when you go from 50 songs to 5,000 songs
changes by 18.8 rating units. R squared that you see
on the side, 0.85, is an indicator of how well this particular
model fits the data. In this particular case, it fits quite well. The R squared is 0.85. Now, the next question is, what do we do with this? Well, the first thing
we can talk about is which attribute
is more important. When I asked this question
to the class, most will say, Professor, of course, price is more important, it has the highest coefficient. That is a good answer, but not a very accurate answer. A more accurate answer
is a price change from 99-249 has a bigger
impact on utility, than brand going from
generic to orange, or capacity going from 50-5,000. It is not that price is
more important than brand, even though it's
a pricing class, and we might say price
is always important. But it is the change in price of 99-249 has a bigger impact on utility than a capacity
change of 50-5,000. If we had chosen
capacity of 50-10,000, maybe capacity coefficient would have become larger than
the price coefficient. I think it's important to keep in mind that the coefficient reflects what is behind it. What is the change in variable that we are contemplating
in the study? That change in variables can be compared with
another change in variable. Capacity can be
compared with brand, can be compared with battery, but specific to that
particular range. Well, what do we
do with all this? Well, now we're in business, and we can actually compute
maximum willingness to pay. The first step to keep in mind, is that we have to translate these
coefficients into dollars. We had planned this well because we included price as
one of the variables. What do we know from the
price as a variable? When we change the
price from 99-249, the utility change by 33.6. What does that mean? 33.6 units of utility for this customer is equal to
a price change of $150. 33.6 Is equal to 150, how much is one unit
of utility worth? Well, it will be 150 divided
by 33.6, which is $4.45. For this particular respondent, each unit of utility, if measured in dollars,
will be $4.45. What do we do with it next? Let's consider one
particular model that this company is thinking
of taking to market. Let's visualize this model to be a model with brand
name orange, capacity, 5,000 songs, battery life, 18 hours, color, one, warranty of one year. What is the total utility of this model for this
particular respondent? Well, we know from the
regression analysis, that when you have a brand name, one, which is orange, it adds 25.7 units of utility. If you add 5,000 songs, 18.8,18 hours of battery life, another 15 odd color, 14 odd, and the one-year
warranty you add seven. If you add all that up, you get 81.2 units of utility. This particular model one gives the respondent, this
particular respondent, not all respondents, but
this particular respondent, 81.2 units of utility. What does 81.2 units means
in terms of dollars? We already said that
one unit of utility for this respondent is $4.45. Why? Because 33.6
units of utility, going back to the
price coefficient, is coming from a $150, so one unit of utility
must be $4.45. Each unit of utility
is equal to $4.45, so 81.2 must be
81.2 times $4.45, and you get 361 odd dollars. This is our estimate
for this responding of their maximum willingness
to pay for Model 1. Let's now think of
another model that this company may be thinking
of taking to market. Let's call that Model 2. Model 2 also has a brand name orange because
it's the same company, 18 hours of battery life, monochrome display, no
warranty, but 2,500 songs. What are we going to
do about 2,500 songs? We only studied 50 and 5,000. Well, what we assumed was, that the willingness
to pay will be linear between 50 and 5,000. If that's the case, then the dummy level, or equal to 2,500
songs will be half, and half of 18.8 is 9.4. Remember where 18.8 comes from, which is the coefficient
of capacity. If we have the capacity, we assumed linear interpolation, so we can assume 9.4
units of utility. You add 25, 0.7
with 9.4 with 15.5, you get 50.6 units of utility. How much is 50.6 units
worth in dollars? Well, we multiply it by $4.45. Remember where $4.45 came from? 33.6 units of utility
is equal to a $150, so each unit of
utility is $4.45. Therefore, 50.6 will be 50.6
times $4.45, which is $225. What have we learned? For Model 1, the maximum
willingness to pay for this customer will be $361, and for Model 2, it is $225. Similarly, we can construct
other models, Model 3, Model 4 that this company may
be contemplating taking to market and compute
the willingness to pay for each one of those. What do we do next? Well, we can do much more. Remember, we had multiple
respondents in this study. For each of these respondents will give us different ratings. Just like for Respondent 1, we had the table of 16
profiles and ratings. Each one of the respondents
has given us a similar table. We can run a separate regression for each of the respondents , compute their coefficients, compute the transfer ratio
between utility and price, and compute their
maximum willingness to pay for each of the models. Let's say we did that
for Model 1 and Model 2. Each respondent, we run
a separate regression, compute their willingness to pay based on the regression
coefficients, just like we did
for Respondent 1. The next step will be to rank order the
maximum willingness to pay from the
highest to the lowest. Highest means the highest from a respondent in our sample, and the lowest being the
lowest willingness to pay for the respondent in our
sample and plot it. When we did this in this
particular exercise, this is the chart we saw. You can see there is variation in willingness
to pay across customers. What does this chart gave us? Many insights. If you look at it,
there is price on the y-axis and number of
consumers on the x-axis. What does a chart
which has price on the y-axis and demand on
the x-axis look like? What do we call it?
It's a demand function. What we have done is estimated a demand function from the various respondents
in the sample. What you also see are flat regions in the
demand function? Flat regions
indicate respondents with similar willingness to pay. Similar willingness to pay means these customers are in some
way similar to each other. It's giving us an indication that there are segments
in this market. Segments are customers who have the same
willingness to pay. We might explore
deeper as to why these customers have the
same willingness to pay. What are their demographic and psychographic characteristics that make them similar. But this is giving us
an indication that some customers in the sample have a very similar
willingness to pay. There must be something
similar about them. There is an indication
of segmentation. In summary, this
conjoint based method is based on published studies. It's well-documented, proven,
and used extensively. It requires more work than
some of the previous methods, but can also give us
different results. For example, from the
same consumer data, we can estimate willingness
to pay for different models. Model 1, Model 2, maybe Model 3 and Model 4. In the Van Westendorp method
or that type of analysis, we would have had to conduct a different survey
for each model. Because each model
would have given a different set of curves. Overall, the three
methods we have discussed compliment each other. The three methods, remember, are economic value
to the customer, the Van Westendorp method
and the conjoint approach. Many times when I
work with companies, I use more than one
method to triangulate. For example, in the Wharton
student's startup for the medical device
that we talked about briefly when we looked at
the Van Westendorp method, we use the Van Westendorp method as well as the
conjoint analysis. Whenever possible, use
more than one method, triangulate your results so that you have more
confidence in your results. Again, maximum willingness
to pay is a very key, very important concept
in pricing decisions. The more confidence we
have in our estimates, the more confidence we'll
have in our decisions.