Hi I'm Kartik and
this session is on social media. Social media offers unprecedented
scale for marketers. Social networks reach most of
the world's online population. For example, Facebook today has
close to 1.5 billion users and marketing on Facebook therefore
provides a lot of reach. Social networking sites also account for
roughly 28% of time users spend online. And so for a marketer looking
to reach the consumer on a medium where the consumer spends time,
social media is particularly attractive. As a result, social media offers
unprecedented and unparalleled reach to marketers and a lot of start-ups have been
using social media quite successfully. For example, consider Blendtec which
is a company that sells blenders. This company started posting videos on
YouTube where they showed their blenders blending interesting products
like an iPhone and other objects. These videos caught
the attention of consumers, and they started sharing it with one another,
and before you know it, this product became quite successful and
Blendtec's sales went up by nearly 400%. Another example is Runkeeper,
which has a fitness product. Runkeeper uses Facebook to
engage with consumers, and has managed to use the platform, and all
the content it's created on the platform, to build a very large
following on Facebook. Before we discuss social media strategies,
I'll take a few minutes to discuss why social cues and
social media are so powerful. To do so, I'll discuss an experiment
with an artificial music market run by Professor Matt Salganik. The motivation for Matt's experiment was the success of
the Harry Potter book at the time. Matt had read that several
publishers had rejected the book before it was eventually published. Now we hear stories
like this all the time. A book or a movie that's
eventually a blockbuster success gets rejected by experts in the field. So Matt wondered what drove that. He wondered whether the quality of the
product drove the success of the book or was it social cues? Or was it a mix of the two? To test that, he ran an experiment where
he created an artificial music market. In this market,
he invited 14,000 participants to come and listen to songs and select songs that
they would like to buy or download. He had 48 songs from 48 previously
unknown artist in this market. He divided the users into a bunch
of different treatment conditions. Some of the users were assigned to
an independent control condition. In these conditions,
songs were ordered randomly and participants listen to the songs,
and downloaded what they wanted. Some of the other participants were
assigned to experimental markets which had social treatments,
or social cues. In these markets,
songs continued to be ordered randomly. However, participants could see how many
times each song had been downloaded by others in their universe. In other words,
users saw a screen with a list of songs along with their download counts at
the time they entered the market. The impact of these social
cues was immediate. Markets with social cues
became blockbuster markets. Products that had been chosen by
early customers in that condition, tended to become more salient to
later participants in that market. These later participants gravitated
increasingly to the songs that were chosen by prior participants and that made
popular songs even more popular, and unpopular songs even less popular,
resulting in the market becoming a significant hits-driven or
a blockbuster market. Furthermore, he also noticed that it
made the market somewhat unpredictable. In this graph here, I plot on the x-axis the download rank
of a song in the independent condition, where users cannot see the number
of downloads of the song. On the y-axis, I plot the download rank of the song in
the eight different social conditions. What you'll observe is that the download
rank of a song in the social condition is somewhat correlated with the download rank
of a song in the independent condition. In other words, songs that generally do
reasonably well in the control condition tend to do reasonably well in
the social condition as well. However, it's possible for
a song that ended up in the top quartile in one market to end up in
the bottom quartile in another market. For example, there was one song that ended
up as the top downloaded song in one market and as the 40th or the 48th
downloaded songs in another market. In short, the Britney Spears or the Katy Perry of one universe might
end up going unnoticed in another, simply because the first few users did
not choose that song, and therefore, that song ended up not being noticed
by later participants as well. So, social cues make markets more
hits-driven and also highly unpredictable. In short, social cues can be highly
powerful in driving product discovery. And that's why social media marketing
has to be an important part of the marketing strategy for
any entrepreneur. Having discussed why social cues matter, let's explore the scope of
social media marketing. Social media marketing may include having
a presence on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn,
and other such platforms. It may also include blogging through
tools like WordPress,Tumblr, or other such software. It may include social shopping
on Instagram or Pinterest. It might include viral marketing
strategies to encourage your early adapters to market your
product to later potential adapters. It may include user-generated content,
wherein consumers write reviews about your product, which
had done influence future product sales. Given the breadth of options available
to an entrepreneur, it is important to first identify what kinds of social
platforms are your customers on, and based on that determine which social
media platforms are appropriate for you. For example, for B to B company, Facebook might not be the first
choice of social media platform. On the other hand, LinkedIn or Twitter might be appropriate based on the
kind of product the company is selling. It should be clear by now that social
media offers a very unique opportunity to marketers. By building a base of brand loyal
followers on social media platforms, a firm can instantaneously spread
information about deals and products and new product launches. Also anytime a customer engages
with your social media content, that engagement is
viewable to their friends, therefore creating the chance of viral
marketing spread of your messages. At the same time,
social media offers several challenges, which imply that in practice,
very few firms are successfully able to leverage
social media to gain any benefits. This is because, for example, on Facebook, only 0.2% Of total possible status
updates actually reach end users. This is because there is so much content being generated on these
platforms all the time, that these platforms like Facebook have to select
a much smaller subset to show the user. Furthermore, studies
show that less than 1% of Facebook fans of brands actually
engage with those brands. This is again because of the wealth
of content on social media. And given the amount of activity and content, it's hard to get
noticed amidst all the clutter. As a result, content marketing, which is
a term that refers to designing content carefully in order to achieve higher
rates of engagement among consumers, is becoming more important
in social media marketing. For example, in a recent study,
we evaluated over 100,000 Facebook posts by nearly 1,000 different
brands on Facebook. We evaluated what was the impact of
content attributes on engagement by their Facebook followers. We found that posts
that were emotional and humorous tended to get higher levels of
comments or engagement from consumers. In addition, posts that talked about
philanthropic activities by the firms and showcased some of their social initiatives
also tended to get high levels of engagement. In contrast, a lot of posts that
talked about product attributes and prices did not get the same levels
of comments and engagement. In short, posts that show brand
personality tend to do better than posts that merely inform
customers about product attributes. Similarly, when we looked at
the number of likes each post got, we again found that posts
that had emotional content, that talked about social initiatives,
got more likes and therefore, greater visibility than posts that
merely talked about product attributes. In short, our conclusion is that when
firms share product information and price information on social media, it is important to pair that
with attributes such as emotion, humor, and others that showcase brand
personality in interesting ways. Designing good content is clearly a very
important step in order to get high levels of engagement. But that alone may not be sufficient. There are many companies that
invest a lot in social media, but ultimately see very limited impact. Effective social media offers
not only engaging content, but also fits very naturally
into the customer journey. One has to think about
the customer pre-purchase process, the purchase process, and
the post-purchase process, and evaluate where exactly social
media might fit in very naturally. To illustrate this point, let me walk
you through an example of Warby Parker. A company that sells prescription
eyeglasses online that was founded by some former students of mine. Now when the company was
selling eyeglasses online, one of the things that they discovered
was that a lot of consumers want to try on eyeglasses before they
eventually purchase the product. That's clearly the experience that you or
I would have when buying eyeglasses. Now in order to provide that
kind of experience to customers, the company decided to offer
a home try-on program. In that program, customers could order five different
pairs of eyeglasses, try all of them, decide which one they want to retain, and
then send the rest back to the company. A lot of people would get the five
eyeglasses, try them on, and then wanted to get social feedback
from their friends on which eyeglass fits them or suits them the best. So, they started posting these
photographs on their Facebook walls. Warby Parker sensed a nice
opportunity here and started sharing these photographs
on their own website, and that increased the number of incidences
where customers would post their photographs with eyeglasses on the Warby
Parker wall or on their own Facebook wall. This allowed Warby Parker to get its brand
name out to friends of their customers. In short, get viral marketing spread
without having to invest any money. And this is a great example of
Warby Parker identifying the social need, specifically somewhere
in the purchase funnel. And this is usually post-ordering the
product when people are trying to select which eyeglass to retain,
that's where they have a social need. Rather than using their Facebook presence
or their broader social media presence to just push messages down to customers and
solicit engagement, Warby Parker identified the clear social need that
customers had during the purchase process. That information need or a social need was to get a second opinion
at the time of purchasing an eyeglass. Warby Parker used its Facebook page to
service the social need that customers had, and got amazing engagement
on its Facebook page. GoPro provides another
interesting example. GoPro sells small miniature cameras that
are used in conjunction with sports and recreational activities. Now the social need around the use of
GoPro usually happens post purchase. Most buyers buy GoPro and
use that camera when they're engaging in activities like biking or
parasailing and things of that nature. And they like to share those
videos with their friends. GoPro uses its YouTube
channel to help people share their GoPro videos with others. Therefore, GoPro uses its social
media presence on YouTube to serve as a social need
that their customers have. In this instance, that social need arises
after the purchase process is completed. And GoPro makes its social media relevant
at the time when the social need arises. Many innovative companies are using
social media in interesting ways. For example, some of your customers might
post photographs after they bought your product on social media channels
like Instagram and Pinterest. Some companies are using
these user-generated content to push social surfing. For example, urban out filters finds
photographs that have been posted by customers on Instagram, and
offers social shopping features like the ability to like the product in order
to buy it directly on the website. Many other firms are using social
media platforms like Instagram and Pinterest to drive social shopping. In summary, social media can be powerful
in building brand personality and increasing brand affinity among customers. Social cues left behind by customers are
powerful in influencing future customers. However getting a return on
investment in social media requires placing attention
on a few key factors. First, identify the right
social media platform. Identify where your customers
are likely to be most active. For BlendTec,
that meant engaging with YouTube. For GoPro,
that again means engaging on YouTube. For RunKeeper and Warby Parker,
that meant leveraging Facebook. Second, place careful
attention to content design. Merely providing product information and price information without showing
brand personality doesn't usually get the kind of return from social media
marketing that you would seek. And finally, match social to the right
stage in the customer journey. Notice how Warby Parker leverage social
during the customer service process to help them select the right product
by getting a second opinion. In contrast, GoPro leverage social in
the post-purchase process in helping customers share their
videos with their friends. Bottom line, there's no single
strategy for social media. Succeeding on social media requires
flexibility, understanding customers, and choosing the right social media
platforms and messages at the right time.