So now I want to talk about getting
your startup ready for growth. And what's interesting about startups and
growth is that a lot of startups that are successful
actually die during this growth phase. They either grow too fast or
they grow the wrong way. And those that don't, the most common
issue I have people coming to me, and talking about their startups is,
that they have trouble scaling up. That they feel that their company reached
30 people and they're the founder of the company, and they still feel
like they're doing everything. They don't know how to delegate authority, that the company only operates because
they're working 80 hours a week. So, I want to spend a little bit of time
talking about how you avoid this situation and how to think about
growth in a startup company. So, the first thing to realize
is there's some interesting, surprising truths about growth. And the first of those is,
you don't have to grow, right? So, if you actually survey small business
owners, most companies don't grow and most small business owners don't want to. They want to build a stable organization,
a lifestyle business that earns them money, but they don't necessarily
want to manage 100 employees and be on the cover of a top magazine. And so,
that's a completely legitimate goal. We tend to talk a lot about fast growth. It's completely okay to want to
grow a stable organization, lets you go home at night and
spend time with your family, and gives you a decent return, and
isn't stressing you out too much. On the other hand,
growing firms do survive longer, right? So, firms that are trying
to grow survive longer, and they do that in a number
of different ways. They survive longer because they
are more likely to retain good talent. They grow faster because they know what
changes are happening in the industry, and they have the ability to
react to those changes. They last longer because growth
gives them additional income to work with if the situations change. So, all of that could be
a valuable tool for your company, so you may want to think about growth,
even though you don't have to. And if you do decide to grow,
not all growth is the same. Young firms grow organically, so
that means that they grow by adding people rather than by taking
over other companies. So, somewhere between 58% and 96% of the growth is organic
compared with 16% for larger firms. And small firms grow organically, right? So, small firms are likely
to grow by hiring people. In fact, if you look at the numbers, large firms in the United States
are actually shrinking organically. So if they weren't acquiring companies,
they'd actually be losing people. So, most growth in employment across most
of the world comes from small companies. Let's say you decide to grow. So, growth brings a host of issues and challenges that change as
the firm grows forward. I want to show you the Churchill and
Lewis model of firm growth. Though, this is a descriptive model,
it's not mathematically proven. So, it doesn't work for all companies. So, some companies skip stages of growth,
some companies go back to stages. So, what the model is useful for is not as a prediction of how your
company is going to grow, but it's a sense of the challenges
that companies face as they grow. So, the very early days of an organization
is this existence column all the way to the left. And the existence phase of an organization
is basically the founder working alone. If you have employees,
you're supervising them directly. And if there's any formal systems of how
you monitor people and control them, they're very, very minimal. Your strategy is to bring
the firm into existence, to actually get some first clients or
raise some money. And the green dot at the bottom,
which represents the business owner, is basically the same thing as
the company which is that blue dot. So, let's say things go well. You start to get a client or
two, you raise a little money, you enter the survival phase. So, you might start hiring employees here,
but if you do, you're going through a process
of supervised supervision. That means that you're actually
watching your employees, and you're watching the supervisors
you're hiring, and kind of keeping an eye on
everything in the company. There may be some minimal
structure in place, but the main goal of
the company is to survive. And as you can see, the business owner
is still pretty much the company, the green dot and blue dot overlap. But perhaps the business owner if focusing
on one part of the company versus another. So, maybe they're a great programmer,
they're spending more effort there. They're a great sales person,
they're spending more effort there. So, if things are going well,
the survival phase goes well, then your company reaches success. So, now you have steady income coming
in or venture capital coming in and now it's time to scale up the organization,
and you have two choices here. The first choice is to choose
basically not to grow. We call this disengagement. So, at this point, you have some
basic functional management and the founder still has
a role in the organization. But, there might be some
basic formal systems, so everyone knows who they report to. And the goal is to keep a status quo. So you're running a drycleaning shop and
you want it to keep running. You're running a restaurant and
you want it to keep running, these are examples of the kind of
organization where you might disengage. So, you still have your employees
running things, but the founder goes and does their own thing and
takes the income for the company. Or, you could decide to grow the company. The founder decides it's
going to double down and he or she is going to spend their
effort to really grow this company. So, in this case, you start to build
the formal structure, the way we talked about in previous discussions
about building growth and culture. And you're going to start getting
the resources together for growth. And the founder is going to push
away from the company a bit, but they're going to take
the company with them, right? They're going to go to the area
to help the company grow, they're going to keep
pushing the company forward. If that goes well,
you go through a process of take off. Now, the company is growing more quickly, you might switch to a more
formal divisional style. There starts to be real formal structure. The organization might have
hundreds people involved and the goal of the company is
to keep growing quickly. The company starts to grow. The founder's still important. And if things go great then you reach
the resource maturity phase where there's a full or formal organization,
there's extensive systems in place, that you've got a real company,
thousands of employees. Your goal is then to get
return on investment. And you could see the little founder
sitting out there as a green dot alone with all the blue around them. So, this is where you come in for
occasional lunches and to give speeches, but the company is sort of far beyond you
and things have grown past that point. Right, so each one of this phases in the
company has different sets of challenges and it tends to be that as you
solve one problem in a company, you introduce the next one. So, early on, startups often
make a whole bunch of mistakes. We call these startup crises. So, you may have brought
on the wrong co-founders, you may have to pivot your organization so
the way you tend to survive this crisis is somebody steps forward as a strong
leader and they guide you through this. Now the problem is, now the person who is
a strong leader has now gotten the whole company used to this person
operating as a leader. So, at some point you need
to delegate authority so you can grow past that person. This creates the next set of crises, as you now have to hire professional
managers and they fight with the founder. So, what happens next is, then the professional managers then start
to have conflicts with the founders, and that creates a conflict of
where the company's going. And crisis have after crisis
tends to result in startups. So, the problem with a startup is that
you tend to veer from issue to issue. And the way you deal with this is you
think overall from the beginning. How do we create an organization
that transcends the founder? And this could be a problem because in
VC-backed firms, according to the research by Noam Wasserman, most CEOs
are replaced within three to four years. And only a quarter of that time is
the replacement initiated by the founder. The rest of the time it's
initiated by the board. So, in most cases, founders are being
kicked out of their company. And you can see from the stats here,
as we go through the rounds of funding, the founding to the initial
A-round of venture capital, the B-round of venture capital, C-round. And these are things we'll discuss
more in the discussion on VC backing. That by the time you are three rounds or
four rounds in, the majority of companies have
fired their founding CEO. So, this is a real issue and
if you don't handle this well, there's a good chance that
you end up being replaced. Interestingly there's a paradox
of success around founders. You're most likely to be replaced
at two points at your company and they're both when you're succesful. Either when you raised around
the fundings so now the VCs or angel investors have some control of
your company and they kick you out. Or else you've just shipped a product and
that you're replaced by the investors who said, okay, great,
you're good at developing product, but you're not good at scaling
a growing company. So, to avoid the kind of crises we talked
about and avoid being kicked out of your own organization, you need to think about
organizing from the very beginning. And there are really three challenges in
any company that you need to think about in terms of organization. The first challenge is division of labor,
the basic question of who does what in your company and
how do you spread work around? And this can actually be a real problem in
startups because usually the founder does everything. So, how does the founder
start to step back? And you have to realize that no
one person could do everything and you have to specialize. So, are you specializing horizontally or
vertically? What kind of job are people doing,
all critical issues. You also have to think about how you're
grouping the activities in your company. Is it by inputs or outputs? In other words, are you thinking about
organizing it so people are customer focused or they're focused on the kinds of
things you need to do inside the company. So, division of labor is the first
issue every company has to deal with. The second is coordination. How do you coordinate among employees? How do you share knowledge
inside the organization? How do you decide what to do as a group? One solution to this is the employment
models we discussed in the last lecture. Another is to actually have an approach
to things like supervision, rules and procedures, plans and budgets, liaison
roles and so you know who does what job. And then finally you have to understand
the boundaries of the organization. What are you doing internally and
what are you contracting out? The third kind of challenge
is decision rights. Who gets to decide what happens? Early on, again,
the founder makes all the decisions. Later on, you actually want other people
to decide things on their own, or you're going to have a very
frustrating set of conversations, as people keep coming to you for
every problem that they have. So, you have to think about how to
allocate clear decision rights along various dimensions. Are you going to be centralized or
uncentralized? What gets done by engineering,
what gets done by marketing? And also, how do you avoid giving
decision rights to people who make bad decisions, right? Or decisions just to help their
department, and not to help the company. So, we fortunately have a solution that
incorporates all three of these issues, decisions rights, coordination,
and division of labor. And unfortunately, it's going to look really boring
because you've seen it before. And it's 100 years old and
we've tested it repeatedly. But it really is the best solution
to these sets of problems. And that's an organizational form. So you've seen org charts before. You may have lived in an org chart. And you may have hated an org chart. But, that's because the org
chart was an abstract feature. When you actually, as a founder,
think about building an organization, these are your best friend, because they
incorporate issues of who does what, who coordinates with whom, and
who gets to make decisions. And they're really two basic structures,
the one is functional, the other is divisional. In a functional structure the idea is that
each part of the organization that does a job has it's own line of reporting. So, there might be an R&D department. There might be a manufacturing department. There might be people in charge of sales. There might be people
In charge of marketing. These are functions
across the organization. So, the person who does marketing,
or the team that does marketing, does marketing for all your products,
your shoe product and your floor wax product and your complex
computer chip manufacturing, right? In the divisional structure,
you're oriented around outputs, around products that you're producing. So in this case, Division A is your shoe
division, Division B is your floor wax division, and Division C is your
complex computer chip division. And they may each have their own
marketing departments, R&D departments, manufacturing departments. So, functional and divisional
structures are your major choice. You may have also heard of matrix
structure organization, right? And in a matrix organization,
people report to both the functional and the divisional head. I would recommend avoiding a matrix as
a early stage startup except in sort of a light way that you want people
to coordinate with each other because there's a lot of political issues
that can come up with these cases. So, let's talk about those three
issues we mentioned before. Division of labor, coordination,
and decision rights. In a functional structure,
division of labor is by inputs, right? By the things the organization is actually
doing, R&D or sales or something similar. You're coordinating by
hierarchical supervision, so the head of R&D looks at
everything that's happening in R&D. Decision rights are very centralized. So, since R&D has its own thing and sales has its own thing that means the
senior management team, whoever they are, has to be the one that's deciding how
to coordinate between sales and R&D. So, everything is happening
at the senior level. And the boundaries of the organization
are between what the core functions of the organization are and
the more peripheral ones are. In the divisional structure,
the goal's outputs by customers, right? So, we have our organization that
services Atlanta is in one area. Our organization that services Europe
is another division and so on. And the coordination is
an individual mechanism. So, the Atlanta office, and the Baltimore
office, and the corporate staff. So, the headquarters people who
decide what offices get which amounts of allocations of resources. And that means you separate strategy and
execution. So, the divisions, the person who runs the
Baltimore office or who runs the floor wax division is in charge of executing
strategies of the company, while the senior management is
actually setting up the strategies and pushing that down to everyone else. And so, there ends up being
conflict between internal and external labor markets. So, what do I have to buy using whatever sort of accounting
mechanism necessary from R&D, and what do I owe sales for handling the sales
in this part of the organization? And the matrix obviously
involves combining both things. So there's dual reporting relationships,
shared decision rights, and multiple interfaces, which is why it's
very complicated for startup companies. What's interesting about these forms is
they actually have different implications for how well your company works. So, the functional company,
one where you have a separate R&D, separate sales, marketing,
is actually best at resource efficiency. And that's because once all sort of
things are being done in bulk, right? So if you have a single
organization handling R&D, that means that you don't have to keep
hiring scientists for each division. They're all working in one place. If you're doing marketing
at the functional level, that means marketing works for
the whole organization. It's much more efficient to do
advertising buys at that level. You don't have to hire as many people. So, functional is really good for
resource efficiency. But that's when it's the only
thing it's really good at. On the other hand, for the time
efficiency, the divisional structure works very well because decisions are made
much lower in the organization. You don't have to go up to
headquarters to make a decision. Instead, the Atlanta office or the floor wax division can
make the their own decisions. In responsiveness, matrix is in theory
very good here, because if there's a problem, you can ask both a functional
manager and divisional manager what to do. But the divisional's also
quite good at this, right? Because, what happens is, if there's a problem in Atlanta,
the Atlanta office deals with it. They don't have to go to
headquarters to make a decision. Similarly, adaptability is very high in
a divisional structure, because if there's a problem or a challenge, you can easily
change direction and adapt to that in that local office, rather than having
to happen at the company as a whole. And accountability is very good. So, in a functional structure, it's very
hard to know who's accountable because R&D is spending money but
they're not making any revenue. In the divisional structure, there's
usually PNLs at each divisional level. So, the Atlanta office has a PNL,
do you know how much money they're making, how much profit,
how much loss they're taking? And so
it's easier to hold people accountable. And then finally on the politics side, the
functions, each function hates each other. So HR hates legal,
legal hates sales, and so on. In a divisional structure, all the
divisions are competing with each other, so Atlanta hates Baltimore. But, they also hate headquarters, who
tells them what to do, and headquarters hates them all for not actually executing
on the plan the way they expected. And in matrix, everybody sort of
dislikes each other because everyone's competing with each other. So, you need to think
about these structures and put them in place early on
in your organization so you avoid the crises of growth and
you avoid getting kicked as a founder. So, better structure, thinking about
whether you want a functional or divisional structure,
actually hiring managers, and scaling up to solve these sets of
problems will set you up for growth. And this is, again, something you have
to do very early in your company. because if you don't set up a structure
early on, you're going to end up growing a completely strange hybrid structure
that won't actually help you manage, won't solve issues in division of labor,
won't solve coordination concerns, and will leave you as a victim of people
who are myopic and make bad decisions. So, another thing you have to think
about early on in your startup, even the very early days, is what
structure you're going to have, and how you're going to deal with
these sets of crises and build an organization that's stable,
and ready to grow for the long term.