David Hsu here with a lecture
on expansion strategy. Here's the phenomenon. Suppose that you are able to be get some
traction with your first segment that you enter into as a entrepreneur company. What guides whether you should
remain in that segment or start thinking about going into
a different area all together. Let me illustrate this. Walt Disney Company, when it enters,
is initially a film studio. They achieved excellence
in their animation. They are quite detailed in their
investments in becoming a studio. Subsequently decades later they
decide to integrate into theme parks. And, at first blush, you might think
that this is quite a surprising move. And so the question that animates this
particular lecture is, under what circumstances should you be going deeper
into the first area that you succeeded in and how could you know whether it makes
sense to get into a different area? We'll talk about the first phenomenon of staying in the same area as
an instance of vertical expansion, remaining in the same initial vertical,
in this case, the studios. We'll talk about the horizontal expansion. We're getting into a different area. As an instance of horizontal expansion, that would be the example of getting
into Disney World or Disneyland. One important aspect of thinking about
the distinction between vertical versus horizontal expansion is the set of
circumstances you might pay attention associated with each of
the different expansion strategies. So under vertical expansion,
remaining in the same industry but getting into different geographies,
getting into different segments of the same industry is very different
than the decision to go horizontally. And so let me say a few words about each. Vertical expansion, you might think
about offering the same products but in a different geography or thinking about backward of forward
integration in the same vertical industry. Let me illustrate this with
the example of easyJet in Europe. So easyJet entered the market,
they were very successful and made a reputation and
brand associated with being a no frills or low frills provider of getting passengers
from point A to point B within Europe. Now they could have in terms of expansion
strategies be thinking about should we take that the same formula and go to Asia
or Africa or North America that would largely be retaining the same competitive
position in the exact same industry. Another example of vertical expansion
could be, let me as easyJets go integrate backwards into
the supply of the various inputs to servicing
the passengers in this industry. Or forward expansion
maybe getting a bit into some of the downstream type of activities
associated with servicing exact same customers in exact same vertical industry. By contrast, a horizontal expansion
is very much like the Disneyland or Disney World play. That is, getting into a different industry
vertical relative to your home base. And it's driven by different set of
logics, so one would be diversification. So, in contrast to vertical expansion,
if you are able to expand horizontally, maybe you've know some of the portfolio in
which the assets that you hold do not move together, and that could be beneficial
from a diversification standpoint, much like what you probably
know from financial theory. The other consideration when you
think about horizontal expansion is brand extension. Is it actually logical,
from the consumer standpoint, that you're in one asset class, or
vertical as compared to what you know or are known for in your home
vertical in case of Disneyland, maybe because you have these assets
of Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck. Maybe that makes sense when
it comes to entering into the theme park type of category. Now, one underlying construct
both in terms of the vertical and horizontal expansion is paying attention
to your evolving core capabilities. And so that is essentially answers
the question, what is actually distinctive here and hard to replicate as
the enterprise, because after all, when you enter into different
aspects of a vertical market or horizontal expansion path, you're going
to bump up against competitive rivalry. And to the extent that you can carve
out something that's distinctive, that you're known for,
that you can extend your brand in. That's going to serve you well. Associated with that, you often
think about these notions of fit or consistency between what you're
doing on an organizational basis. That is, does it actually make sense
as the Walt Disney company for example, that you're getting into
theme parks because do they share a set of activities as what you're
doing on the studio business? And so the outcome of that decision or
discussion in your company as you think about expansion, will actually help
guide your expansion path forward. That is, are you extending
something that's hard to imitate, something that is at the essence of what
you're doing in terms of a core skill that's going to be difficult for
others to come in and replicate. Let's talk little bit more
about vertical expansion. So, here we're talking about forward or backward integration,
maybe getting into different geographies. This is going to be driven by
a number of considerations. So perhaps first and foremost,
will it extend your brand? Are there some activities that you
should be doing on a vertical basis that is going to increase
your skill set and be reinforcing in terms of
the brand that you are building. A second consideration is what's
known as scale economies. We've confronted this before. Here, are you from a operation standpoint,
better leveraging your fixed assets? Maybe it's machinery, maybe it's people. Are you able to get some leverage in
terms of utilization rates, learning, as a result of engaging in more of this
activity and deepening that activity. So in the language or in the context of
say, easyJets as you think about going across geographies, are there some shared
back office type of considerations, whether that be analytics, software
that you have in your operations that's now being more utilized as a result
of your expansion across geographies. Now taking that easyJet example,
you could very well think about remaining in the airline industry, but
moving your positioning. Not just in the no frill segment,
but staying in Europe and migrating upstream or downstream from
the position that you've carved out. And that will in turn be really shaped
by these issues of core capabilities and your positioning in the marketplace
as well as scale economies. Now, when you think about prioritization
and sequencing your expansion pads. You're going to want to take into
consideration what is logical, what is going to be easier, and
what is going to be harder. Particularly important for
an entrepreneurial company, you'll want to try to think about
going to the lowest hanging fruits. Then kind of sequencing your activities so
that you are picking up the skills, developing your core capabilities. So that you are prioritizing the easier
things first and prioritizing the more difficult, but perhaps higher
pay off type of activities later on. But it's actually also important to be
mindful of differences as you think about the vertical pathway that you go in,
because after all, take it for example the geographic
locational differences. There's going to be differences in
regulatory environment, there's going to be differences in the consumer
base that you're going to be reaching. So you don't take it for granted. That just because you've been successful
in one geographical occasion, say you're up for easyJet, that you're
going to be automatically successful with that exact same business model or
competitive positioning in Asia or Africa. Be mindful of those differences. And the same thing will be true
in terms of your positioning. One of these alternatives
we talked about is, you can stave in the airline
industries easyJet. In the same airline vertical but,
to what extent as you try to move upstream from the no frill segment or even if it's
possible to move downstream for that. Don't take for granted that it's
going to be automatically easy even if you stay within your home
geographic location, Europe, in the case of easyJet,
that you'll be successful. Because after all, it may be the case, that you are successful in
your first home market and position precisely because you've aligned
your activities as an organization to meet well the customers that demand
what you're doing in your first market. In the case of easyJet,
it's the no frills segment in Europe, whereas it may be quite difficult for you
to achieve as equally successful position, as you move to different segments,
competitively in that landscape. Now, let's think about
the horizontal expansion decision. Here, remember, it's the idea of Disney
moving away from their home vertical, that is, the movie studios and
cinema operations, into doing something
that's quite different. That is, the example of theme parks. And so here you want to think
about three considerations as it points to Whether it makes
sense to expand horizontally. The first goes back to the idea
of leveraging your evolving core capabilities. Is there some logic in which you
could think about leveraging what you're good at or could be potentially
good at in that other category? Is there an overall notion of synergy so that you should really be
involved in that other activity? And let me make these concepts
more specific by proposing two very specific tests that
will guide horizontal expansion. The first test is the better off test. Would it make sense to have the combined
activities under one organizational roof or will there be more value creation
if there is not common ownership? That is, in the language or
the context of the Disney example, would it actually make more sense or
lead to more value creation if Disney did not
integrate into the theme park business, but instead redeployed or really channeled
and focused all their resources into getting much deeper into the vertical,
that is their home studios, right. Is there some logic of synergy so that there's spill-overs between
the proposed horizontal segment, that is the studios, and what they're
doing in their movie business. Is there some reason,
either from a scope economy type of shared platform type of logic that is
cost cutting or brand extension so that it actually makes sense to have both
activities under one organizational roof. That's the better off test. The best alternative test is,
now that you've decided that common ownership may be desirable from
a value creation standpoint. Does it stand the test
of the best alternative? That is, you could for example license
the activity in the theme park or have a strategic alliance with
the operator that operates the theme park. With those alternate forms of organizing
the transaction actually would be better from a value creation, value capture standpoint relative
to actually owning it yourself. And so let me give you two
examples within the Disney context that can illustrate
the best alternative test. So in terms of the theme parks,
maybe Disney doesn't want to license a specialist in the operator of a theme
park because they want to have control over how their characters are represented,
control over the rides in the theme parks. Because if they left it to a third party even if the incentives are aligned
through a joint venture or strategic alliance maybe that third party
doesn't take the same level of care as Disney would himself in terms
of preserving the core assets. The core assets being the characters
themselves in the way that they're being portrayed in the rides, in the experience
associated with this name, Disney World. And maybe that's one reason
why as Disney World, Disney actually owns for that asset. Another dimension that synergy could
be that, they could cross promote. In Disney,
they get more traction in promoting their valuable characters that they're
also developing in the studios. That cross promotion could be
one important synergy as to why Disney World is actually
owned by the Disney Company. Now, take in contrast a different
activity that Disney could be doing. They could be also operating
as a fast food operator. Because after all, fast food meals could
come with some Disney characters and that could leverage their brands and core
assets being the different characters. But here, Disney actually thought about
this particular activity and decided that they're better off licensing their
characters to a third party. McDonald's or some other third
party fast food provider because why does Disney have to be in
the business of selling french fries and hamburgers when an outside entity
can do that just was well. And it's very clear the damage from
licensing the characters in a happy meals or [INAUDIBLE] being represented in
the fast food chain, the threat there is not very real in terms of Of
degrading the core assets, so long as they can really specify in the contracts
how those characters are represented. And so, maybe that logic through
this best alternative test, leads to different outcomes as we thought
about the Disney World expansion decisions versus the possible expansion decision
backward into the fast food business. So, to summarize the discussion
about the expansion path. You have two options, vertical expansion,
that is remaining in the same industry and going backwards or forwards or
into a different geography. There's also the horizontal expansion
decision that is getting into a different industry vertical. Each of these types of expansion
decisions comes with a shared platform of consideration, but also a distinct
set of considerations as well.