One of the key concepts in
making good pricing decisions, and one of the
fundamental concepts is the concept of
price elasticity. When I asked the
question to my class, what is price elasticity? The most common answer I get is, it's an indicator of how sales change when you change price. While this answer is not wrong, it is not accurate either. It's very important for
us to understand what precisely do we mean
by price elasticity. For example, the word sales means different things
to different people. For some, sales is
how many bags of fertilizer we sell and
to other sales might mean how many dollars sales
of fertilizer we get, so we need to be more precise. Price elasticity is about how unit sales are
affected by price changes. But even that is
not precise enough, we need to be even more
precise than that. The more formal definition
of price elasticity is how much is the percentage change in unit sales for a one
percent change in price. Price elasticity
mathematically is percentage change in unit sales divided by percentage
change in price. You might ask, why do
we make our lives so complicated by dealing
with percentages? We have to create a
percentage on the top as well as a percentage for
the denominator, why bother? There are many reasons. But an easy one to
appreciate is that you do not want a
concept such as price elasticity or its
measurement to change just because you measure quantities
in thousands or hundreds, or tons or pounds, or price in dollars or cents. The price elasticity for any particular product or a service is inherent to
that product or a service, say, price elasticity of beer versus price
elasticity of scotch. Why should it be different
whether you measure price in dollars or in cents? Price elasticity of steel. Why should it be different
whether you measure steel in pounds or in tons? What a percentage to percentage does is takes those units away. Elasticity is a pure number and it does not matter whether
we're talking about meters, pounds, gallons, tons,
dollars, or euros. That's not the only reason why we do a percentage
over percentage, but that's one of the reasons. Oftentimes we hear business
people use the phrase, my demand is elastic or
my demand is inelastic. What do we mean by
elastic or inelastic? When I asked this
question in the class, the typical answer
I get is Professor, it's about whether demand
changes with price or not. Well, once again, this is not a wrong answer, but it's not a precise answer and it's good to be precise. When we talk about
elastic or inelastic, our conversation shifts from
unit sales to revenues. Let's look at the next concept, which is what we call as
a revenue elasticity. As you can imagine, if price elasticity was
percentage change in unit sales divided by
percentage change in price, then revenue elasticity would
be percentage change in revenue divided by
percentage change in price. I think we could go through this and some of you
may remember from your high school
days the concept of chain rule from calculus. I want to bug you
with that today. But using the chain
rule from calculus, we can show that revenue elasticity is equal to one plus quantity elasticity. What does that mean
in pragmatic terms? We usually expect
when we increase price to unit sales to go down. Let's assume that to be
the case for the moment, it doesn't happen always but let's assume that is the case. If your quantity elasticity
or your price elasticity is, let's say exactly equal to minus one, what does that mean? A one percentage
change in price, one percent increase in price reduces your unit sales
by exactly one percent. That means your price
elasticity or quantity elasticity is exactly
equal to minus one. What will be the
revenue elasticity? Well, the revenue
elasticity will be 1 plus your quantity elasticity, which is 1 plus minus
1, which is equal to 0. What does that mean?
For such a product where your price
elasticity or quantity elasticity is exactly minus 1, your revenue elasticity
will be zero. What does that mean? If you lower your
price by one percent, your unit sales will increase by one percent and your revenues
will remain the same. If you lower your price
by one percent and your price elasticity
happens to be minus 1, then again, your revenue
elasticity will be zero. If your price elasticity is
exactly equal to minus 1, then your revenue
elasticity is zero. If your price elasticity
happens to be more than minus 1 by more, I mean more negative
than minus 1. Let's say it's minus 2. You lower your price
by one percent, your unit sales will increase by two percent and your revenue
will go up by one percent. Why? Because 1 plus
minus 2 is minus 1, you lower your price
by one percent, your revenues will go
up by one percent. How does this relate to
being elastic or inelastic? The simple answer is, if you are lowering prices
and your revenue goes up, then your demand is
considered to be elastic. If you're lowering price by, let's say one percent and
your revenue goes down, then your demand is
considered to be inelastic. In other words, if
your price elasticity is somewhere between
zero and minus 1, your demand is inelastic
because your revenues will go down when you lower
your price by one percent. If your demand is elastic, what does that mean? Your demand elasticity or your price elasticity is more negative than minus
1, say minus 2, minus 3, then when you lower
your price by one percent, your demand will go up by more than one percent,
say two percent. If your elasticity is minus 2 and your revenues will
go up by one percent, and we say demand is elastic. Therefore, again,
summarizing, elastic or inelastic has
something to do with the impact of price
changes on revenues. If your revenue elasticity
is in the right direction, you lower your price, your revenues will go up. It all depends on the magnitude
of your price elasticity, or in other words, what we
call as quantity elasticity. Let's now talk about another concept which is
a little more complex, but actually quite important, and that is the concept of
break-even profit elasticity. What do we mean by break-even
profit elasticity? It means really in simple terms, what is the price elasticity needed for profits
to break even? Not revenues, but profits. Again, going back to revenues. What is the break-even
revenue elasticity? If you remember, at what elasticity do
revenues remain the same? The answer is minus 1. Breakeven revenue
elasticity is minus 1. It doesn't depend on
what business you're in. It doesn't depend
on whether you are selling steel or copper, whether you're selling
beer or scotch. Your breakeven revenue
elasticity is always minus 1. But your break-even
profit elasticity will depend on what
business you're in. In this process, it
also helps us link cost structure to
elasticity and profits. Let's put it in a context. Let's think of a company
called Admiral Electric, which has three different
products or business groups, and this company is
thinking about changing the price of these products
or business groups. The contribution margin for
the three business groups or three products are 85 percent, 55 percent, and 15 percent. The company is facing
some pressures from the market and is thinking of lowering prices
by five percent. You are sitting as an
analyst or in the company, and you are asking the question, will such a price
change work out? Or in other words, what will be the
potential impact of such a price change on profits? Will profits increase
or not increase? I think this is a very
important question. Let's see how we tackle this. A little bit of algebra, but not very complex. I think it will help us ground ourselves
in the concept of break-even profit elasticity or the elasticity needed
to break even. Let's think of p_0 being
our initial price, q_0 being our initial demand, and let's say c is the cost
or the variable cost of product that doesn't
change with price. Let's say we are
contemplating a new price, p_1, and that might lead
to a new demand q_1. What is the break-even
profit condition? The break-even profit condition
would be p_1 minus c, which is the new margin, times q_1 which is
the new demand, is equal to p_0 minus c, which is the old margin, times the old unit sales, q_0. So that'll be our
break-even condition. We can rewrite this
using a little bit of algebra as q_1 divided by q_0 is equal to p_0 minus c divided by p_1
minus c. All we did was, we took q_0 from the right-hand side to
the left-hand side, and we took p_1 minus c from the left-hand side
to the right-hand side. Quite simple. The next step would be to subtract
one from each side, both the left-hand side and
the right-hand side and simplify. What do you get? You get q_1 minus q_0 over q_0 on the left-hand side,
and the right-hand side, the numerator is p_0 minus
c minus p_1 minus c, divided by p_1 minus c, which can be simplified further. The numerator is just p_1 minus p_0 and divide it by the denominator where we are adding and
subtracting a p_0, p_1 minus p_0 plus p_0 minus c. I think you're already seeing some
interesting terms emerging, and you will see more of
that in the next step. Let's divide the
right-hand side, both the numerator
and the denominator, by p_0. What do we get? The left-hand side is q_1
minus q_0 divided by q_0, which is nothing but the
percentage change in quantity. On the right-hand
side, the numerator is percentage change in price, p_1 minus p_0 divided by p_0. In the denominator, we also
have two interesting terms. The first one is
nothing but again, the percentage change in price that is being
contemplated. The second term is
percentage margin, the original percentage margin, which is p_0 minus
c divided by p_0. One more step and we are done. We take the numerator from the right-hand side down
to the left-hand side. What do we have on
the left-hand side? Q_1 minus q_0 divided by q_0, divided by p_1 minus p_0
divided by p_0. What is that? Most of you will
recognize that it is percentage change in unit sales divided by percentage
change in price, and that is elasticity. What do we have on
the right-hand side? We have minus 1 in the numerator and then two interesting
terms in the denominator. The first term is just the
percentage change in price, and the second term is just the initial
contribution margin. Now we have an
interesting relationship that allows us to
answer the question. When Admiral Electric is planning to change its
price by five percent, what will be the
elasticity needed to break even for
different business units? Let's try answering that. Once again, break-even
profit elasticity or the elasticity needed to break even on
profits is minus 1 divided by two terms, percentage contribution margin and percentage price change. Let's implement that in the
context of Admiral Electric. Let's start with
business unit 1. Its original margin
is 15 percent, and we are thinking of lowering
price by five percent, then the elasticity needed
to break even on profits will be minus 1 divided by 0.15, which is our original
margin, minus 0.05, which is the five percent
reduction in price, which is then minus 1
divided by 0.1 minus 10. What does that mean? For a business unit
with 15 percent margin, the elasticity needed to
break even will be minus 10. Let's think of the
second business unit, where the original gross
margin was 25 percent, and once again, we
are planning to decrease prices by five percent. The elasticity needed to
break-even on profits here would be minus 1 divided by 0.25, which is the percentage
gross margin of the business unit minus 0.05, which is the five
percent price reduction we are contemplating. That's minus 1 divided by 0.2, which is minus 5. Finally, for the 55
percent gross margin, the original gross
margin is 55 percent. We are planning to
lower the price by five percent and the break-even
profit elasticity will be 0.55 minus 0.05
inverted minus 2. If we have three
business units with 15 percent, 25 percent, and 55 percent margins, you can see the break-even profit elasticities
are different. If we had another business
unit with 85 percent margin, we can do that calculation also and you will
get minus 1.25. Next question is, what
does this all mean? What does an
elasticity of 10 mean? When I ask this
question in the class, some people very
quickly will answer, "Professor, it means demand
needs to go up 10 times." Well, that is not
the correct answer, even though that may appear
to be the correct answer, because elasticity of minus 10, it's percentage change in demand divided by percentage
change in price, but remember, we're not
thinking of one percent, we are thinking of a five
percent change in price. If a five percent change in price requires an
elasticity of 10, that means the unit
sales must go up by 10 times 5 percent
which is 50 percent. In the business unit with a
gross margin of 15 percent, unit sales must go
up by 50 percent or 10 times the percentage
change in price, which was contemplated
to be five percent. If your previous market research
or previous data seem to suggest that such a
change is not likely, then that means five
percent change will not work out and if you do it, it lead to lower profits. Maybe for higher-margin
businesses, it might work out
because there you need a lower break-even
profit elasticity. It's important to keep in mind that the break-even profit
elasticity increases non-linearly when
margins go down. When margins go down from 55-25, the break-even profit
elasticity goes from 2-5 when it goes
down to 15 percent, it goes up to minus 10. It's not increasing
linearly with margins, it's increasing
non-linearly with margins. What does that mean in terms of just simple understanding? Highest difficulty in making up for profit losses in
lower-margin businesses. In fact, the
difficulty increases non-linearly as your
margins go down. We learned three important foundation concepts
in this module. The concept of price elasticity, or simply what some others
may call demand elasticity. The second concept we learned
is revenue elasticity. Just like demand
elasticity says, what is the percentage
change in demand for a one percent
change in price? Revenue elasticity is, what is the percentage change in revenues for a one
percent change in price? Again, revenue elasticity
is focusing on revenues. When we think of demand
being elastic or inelastic, our focus is on revenues. Break-even revenue elasticity, we discussed this, but just
to revise and summarize, break-even revenue elasticity is minus 1 no matter what
business you are in, whether you are in steel or
copper, it doesn't matter. In other words, for
revenues to break even, your elasticity has to be more negative than minus 1 no matter
what business you are in. Finally, the concept of
break-even profit elasticity. What is the elasticity needed
to break even profits? These concepts are
excellent starting points for making good
pricing decisions.