In this module, we will talk about the
importance of pricing. Setting the price
is probably one of the most important decision
an entrepreneur makes. It's not just about
setting the price but more broadly thinking about what
is the right revenue model, and price is just
one part of that. I often say, when
you set the price, you should focus on
both the numerator and the denominator. What do I mean by that? It's not just price, but also price per what? Will it be per unit of
the product or per year? More about this later. People often just think of the numerator and that's
not a bad place to start. So let's start with that now. Pricing is important, but
it's hard to do it well. A very nice survey I've done
for marketing managers, and they were asked, what are the items they
are well-informed on? They said they are very
well-informed on variable costs, very well-informed
on fixed costs, nicely-informed on
comparative prices, but when it came to product's
value to the customer, how will the customer respond to price and their acceptance? The level of comfort of most
managers was not as much. Let's think about how we
go about setting price and start with the four key inputs
into pricing decisions. The first key input, of course, is cost. What does it cost me
to make the product? In most cases, cost provides a floor for what price
we set, but not always. For example, you might consider freemium pricing in some cases, just as Dropbox did, where you make your product
free for most people, and then only a few people pay for the higher
version of the product. In that particular case, Dropbox did not use cost as
a floor for the product for every customer but kept in mind the overall revenues
relative to the total costs. The next factor that sets the up is the upper
bound on the price, which is the maximum
willingness to pay, or WTP. Economists often refer to it also as the reservation price. We shall study three
popular methods to measure willingness to pay
later in this module. The next factor is competition. Competition forces us to charge less than the
maximum willingness to pay. We may need to give some incentive to the
potential customers or some incentive to switch
from what they are doing today to our product
or our service. This we refer to as accounting
for switching costs. Finally, our channel
partners and collaborators also influence
our pricing decisions. Usually pushing it higher because we have to
make sure that they also make some money and are
rewarded for their efforts. Automobile companies charge a higher price to the consumer because the car
dealers must also make some money
for their efforts. Many direct-to-consumer
startups today avoid using channel
partners to save on this. Tesla also sells directly
to the customer, and it's changing the
industry practice here. This is a nice visual that helps us put all these four
factors together. The willingness to pay sets
the maximum ceiling price. Cost, in most cases, gives us the floor. Competition forces
us to charge a little bit lower than the
maximum willingness to pay, and our collaborators and
our channel partners, keeping their interests in mind, we are forced to charge a little bit higher than the costs.