One of the key inputs in making a good pricing
decision is estimating what is the maximum a potential buyer may be willing to pay for
a new product, a new idea, or a new service we are contemplating
taking to the market. Economists often refer
to this as estimating the reservation price and it is a key input into many analyses. The maximum willingness to pay
may vary across customers, and this variation
often gets reflected in what we commonly refer to
as the demand function, which is many cases nothing but the plot of reservation
prices from high to low. In this module, we shall learn three different approaches to estimating maximum
willingness to pay. Each is used in a different
setting and oftentimes we use more than one to
triangulate to get more confidence in our
business decisions. The first method for measuring maximum willingness
to pay that we will discuss is economic
value to the customer. It is also often referred
to as EVC in short. It is particularly
useful in business to business settings
we are conducting surveys is not possible. The main outcome we're looking for is when a customer
changes from say, one method of solving
their problem, say one technology, to a newer technology, how much might
they be willing to pay for the new technology? We shall do this
in the context of the new chemicals mini-case that I hope you all
had a chance to read. If you haven't read that, please read that before we
go forward with this module. The question posed at
the end of the case is, how much will Professor Raju be willing to pay for
this new tablet? When I asked this question
to my students at Wharton, many will raise
their hands and say, Professor Raju will
be willing to pay $220 plus the cost of
his time of two hours. When I ask how much do you
think my time is worth, it generates quite
a bit of laughter. Some students have the
courage to make a guess. Let us for the
moment, assume that my cost of time is zero, and let's say that it's not an assumption, but it's a fact. Then I ask the students, how did we arrive
at the 220 number? Or in other words, what other drivers of
willingness to pay. Let's do that carefully now. The pool is 20,000 gallons. Cost of draining the water is one dollar per 1,000 gallons. For 20,000 gallons, that will be $20. Refilling the water costs one
dollar per a 100 gallons, and we are talking about
a pool of 20,000 gallons, so it'll be $200. The cost of time of two hours we've already assumed is zero, so that'll be zero, and we add that up, we get $220. What we're really trying to do here is trying to get
an estimate of how much does it cost
Professor Raju to do the job today using
the old method. The old method here is drain
the pool and then refill it. If the company were to go
to Professor Raju and say, this tablet is priced at 220. If it has done its
calculations carefully, Professor Raju will
most likely say, I'm economically
indifferent between the old technology and
the new technology. This is how we define the economic value to the
customer or EVC in short, the price of the new technology
at which the customer is indifferent between the
old and the new technology. The computation of
EVC requires making assumptions as do all decisions. But it gives us a
useful benchmark, what is the maximum
somebody will be willing to pay for the new idea
or a new technology? The methodology and the
approach also helps us answer several other
important questions. For example, new chemicals may be
interested in finding out who will be willing to pay more than 220 and who will be willing
to pay less than 220? What we are trying
to do here is assess the drivers of economic
value so we may be able to segment the market and
decide who will be the buyers who are
most attractive to our product or service. What might be these drivers? I often hear that it can
be the size of the pool. I ask the question
to my students, how will you know who has a bigger pool and who
has a smaller pool? The pools are usually in people's backyards and
they are not visible. In other words, any
driver of willingness to pay that is actionable should be observable
to the seller. Some clever students might say, we can look at Google Maps
and see the size of the pool. But then what about
the depth of the pool? In any case, what we are looking for is drivers of willingness to pay that are easily
observable and actionable. Another answer I get is those who are environmentally
conscious will be willing to pay more because
this tablet will save water. Again, one can ask the question, how will you know who's more environmentally conscious
than the other? Maybe it's their
affiliation with other associations,
other groups. But again, that's not
as straightforward. Another good answer
is geography. Some counties or
townships may charge more for water disposal or
more for freshwater. In those counties, people with the same pool size relative to another county will
be willing to pay more. That is a much more
actionable variable. Cost of refilling and disposing water may depend on which county you live in and
counties are observable. What about the value of time? Professor Raju's value
of time is zero. Those with higher value of time may be willing to pay more. But once again, we have
to ask the question, how would you know who has
a higher value of the time? Is the size of the
home an indicator? Whenever we have a variable that drives value or maximum
willingness to pay, if that particular variable
is not visible or observable, we might find a
surrogate for that. But I think the broad point
we are trying to make here is economic value to the customer does not
just give you a number, but also gives you an idea about how that number might
vary across customers, who might be willing
to pay more for our product and who might be willing to pay less
for a product. Another advantage of economic
value to the customer is it gives us an idea of
who our true competition is. Now, the true competition
in this case is probably water disposal companies who actually earn money
by disposing water. It may not be necessarily
another company making the same chemical tablet. In summary, economic value to the customer gives us an
estimate of willingness to pay. This information is
useful in setting prices. Differences in willingness to
pay across buyers helps us determine who to go after
and who not to go after. Combining economic value to the customer with the concept
of customer lifetime value also gives us a very
useful way to understand our customer base or the
potential customer base. We will go into details of
this in another module.