Hi, my name is Kartik Hosanager, and this
session is on building two-sided markets. Two-sided markets are markets
with two types of participants, where the benefit for one side depends on the number of participants
on the other side of the market. This is also known as cross-side
network externalities or cross-side network effects. Take credit card networks, for example. My value of joining a credit card network,
such as Visa or MasterCard is a function of the number of
businesses that accept that credit card. And for a small business, the value of
being on that credit card network is a function of the number of customers
who have such a credit card. And so, this is a great example
of cross-side network effects. Take gaming consoles, as another example. Consider Xbox, or Sony PlayStation. As a consumer, when I buy these gaming
consoles, my value from that console is a function of the number of interesting
games that are available on the console. And for a game developer, the value
of building a game for that console is a function of the number of people or
consumers who use that console. Another example of
cross-side network effects. Finally, consider Uber,
which is an online taxi dispatch service. As a consumer I value being on a service, like uber if they're a lot of taxi cabs
that are available on that network. And for a taxi cab driver, the value of joining Uber is a function
of how many consumers are using Uber. These are all examples of cross-side
network effects, where the value of one side depends on how many players or
participants are on the other side. Technology platforms are also good
examples of two-sided networks, or two-sided markets. Technology platforms may be
thought of as hardware or software systems, which are partially
programmable by outside developers. So consider for example,
Apple's iOS platform for its iPhone, or Google's Android
platform for Android phones. The platform provider Apple of Google,
provides a core platform capability. Developers build on top of this platform,
and therefore it is partially programmable, and they add additional
functionality on top of the platform. Now, these kinds of platforms are good
examples of two-sided markets because here again, the value for me as a consumer
of buying an iPhone is a function of the number of apps available on it. And the value for a developer of building
an app on the iPhone platform is a function of how many
users use that platform. Gaming consoles, like Xbox and
Sony PlayStation are, again, other examples of
technology platforms. A variety of unique issues arise in
the context of two-sided networks, the most important of which is how do
you build liquidity in the market? For example, if you consider
a gaming console, consumers are not willing to buy a gaming console unless
there are enough developers on it. Developers are not willing to build
on the gaming console because there are not enough consumers on it. So, this creates a chicken and
egg problem, and you cannot solve the liquidity issue
unless you address the chicken and egg problem in some interesting manner. So, we're going to talk a little bit
about how an entrepreneur trying to build a two-sided market might address some of
the liquidity challenges in such a market. Now, one interesting strategic lever
available to an entrepreneur trying to build a two-sided market
is that of pricing. Now, traditional pricing strategy
seeks to set a price for a product so as to maximize revenues
from the customers. Now, one way to do this
is to conduct a survey, where you assess consumer response
to different product prices. So in the survey, you might ask
the customers whether they would buy the product if it was priced at $100, were they buy of it is priced at $80,
$60, $40, and so on. And using their responses, you construct
something that is similar to a demand curve, which essentially tells you what
proportion of your customer base will adopt the product at
any given price point. Now, we set a price that
seeks to maximize revenues. In the example on your left,
I have a demand curve for consumers on one side
of my two-sided market. And I see as in the new market, if I set too high a price very
few customers will adopt. And if my price is very low,
I could get the entire customer base. And I eventually, set the price which
is indicated here as the price P, which maximizes my overall revenues. On the right-hand side of your screen,
you see the demand curve for developers. Here again, we're trying to
understand how many developers will develop on our platform
if we chose a certain price. And as you expect a low price
gets a lot of developers, a high price gets you very few developers. And here again, I set a price that
maximizes my revenues from developers. In this example, I've chosen prices that
maximizes my revenues from consumers, and also maximizes my
revenues from developers. But it turns out, this is not the pricing strategy that
maximizes your overall revenues. An alternative pricing strategy that
does better is to subsidize one side of the market, so as to increase
profits from the other side. Consider the figure on your left side,
where now we're trying to lower the price. Instead of the price we
were previously charging, we're now charging
consumers a price of zero. By doing so, we get all potential
consumers interested in our product. Now, when we get all potential
customers interested in our product, this fundamentally changes
the demand curve on the other side. Developers are more interested in building
on this platform because you've got more consumers. So on the right-hand side, you see the demand curve for developers
has itself shifted to the right. And given that the demand curve for developers has shifted to the right,
I can now charge a slightly higher price. And what you see is that when I
charge the slightly higher price, I get additional revenues,
which is what is marked in red. The additional revenues that I get from
developers, more than offsets the loss of revenues from setting
the price to consumers to zero. In other words,
I've subsidized consumers so as to get more consumers
into my gaming console. And by bringing more consumers,
I've increased the willingness to pay for developers, and I'm able to charge them
a higher price which effectively increases my revenues considerably. There exist many examples
of this strategy. Consider Adobe Acrobat Reader, and
Adobe Acrobat Writer or Distiller. Now, this is a software that is
used to create and use PDFs. Most of us are probably used to
downloading the Reader for free, so that we can open PDF files and read them. In contrast, if you want to create
a PDF file then you pay for it by buying Acrobat Distiller or
Acrobat Writer. So in this example, Adobe has
decided to give the Reader for free. Meaning, subsidized one side of the market
the consumers of information, and charge a slightly higher price
to the other side of the market. These are the publishers who are creating
the content that's ultimately going to be read. Another such example is Yellow Pages. In many countries, Yellow Pages
are offered for free to consumers. And in contrast, businesses pay a high fee to get prominent
placement on these Yellow Pages. Here again, consumers value the
information they get from Yellow Pages, and that's provided for free to them. And by doing so, and getting lots
of consumers using Yellow Pages, these companies are able to charge higher
prices to the merchants that want to place themselves prominently
on the Yellow Pages. Nonetheless, if you're
designing a two-sided market, its useful to ask which side of
the market should I offer subsidies to? To determine which side to subsidize
it's useful to go back, and see what was the impact of
providing a pricing subsidy. In the previous example, we observed that
when we reduce the price on the consumer side to zero, the demand among
consumers increase by a large amount. The second impact was that it
shifted the demand among developers. Based on these two observations, we have
two differed strategies to determine which side of the two-sided
market to subsidize. The first strategy,
is to subsidize the price sensitive side. Notice in that example when I reduce
the price for consumer by a small amount, the demand among consumers
increase by a large amount. And so in other words, consumers were
highly price sensitive that a small change in price results in
a large change in demand. Therefore, by making it free, we might address the liquidity challenges
on this side of the market considerably. The other observation we had was that
by providing a price subside, and observing an increase in
demand on the consumer side. We also observe that the demand curve on the developer side shifting
significantly to the right. And so, the other strategy might be based on
the extent of this shift in demand curve. In other words,
we want to subsidize the side that generates the greater value
to the other side of the network. In other words, by subsidizing consumers, developers' willingness to pay
increase dramatically, and therefore that's an interesting strategy
because we get significant network value. In short, subsidize is the side that
is worth more to the other side. We see examples of both these
strategies in practice. Recollect the example of
Adobe Acrobat Reader and Acrobat Writer. Acrobat Reader is offered for
free to consumers, whereas Writer is priced at
a premium to publishers and professionals that want to
create high-quality documents. Here again, the price sensitive
side is offered the product for free, and the side that is
willing to pay a higher price, that's the one that's
charged a premium amount. Another example of this strategy is Uber. Uber is a taxi dispatch service
that connects consumers on one side with taxi cab operators on the other side. During the early days of Uber
the price of the product was higher, and it was positioned for
premium taxi cabs. The result of that was
you had a smaller share of consumers who were on the platform. And because you had a lower or
smaller customer base, you have also ended up with
fewer taxi cabs on the network. After a few years,
Uber decided to lower the price point and offer really low-cost taxi cabs. By doing so, they significantly increased
the number of consumers on the platform. And when the number of consumers
on the platform increased, a lot of drivers wanted to be on the Uber
platform and drive for Uber, and that increase the supply of taxi
cabs on the market as well. Another example I mention
is to subsidize the site that provides the greater value
to the other side of the network. We see this on a day-to-day
basis in the way clubs and bars price their cover charges. So for example in lot of clubs,
women get in for free, and
men have to pay cover charges to get in. The presence of more women at
a club increases the price that men are willing to pay to enter the club. And this is a great example
of subsidizing one side, in order to charge a premium
to the other side. This is an example on a lighter note, but nonetheless it's a very genuine example
of a firm trying to address liquidity challenges in a two-sided market
by offering subsidies to one side. The pricing is not the only mechanism
available to entrepreneurs to address the chicken and
egg issue in building a marketplace. There exists many other strategic options. One of them is to try and obtain supply
from other marketplaces, or other sources. For example, consider AirBnB,
which is a website that connects consumers looking for
short term rental opportunities with home owners that are looking to rent
out their properties for short term stays. AirBnB had the classic chicken and
egg problem. Consumers are not interested in the
website, if there aren't enough listings. And homeowners are not interested in
renting out their properties in AirBnB unless there are enough consumers. To address this challenge, AirBnB scraped
some of the listings from Craigslist, in order to build an initial
supply of listings. By doing so,
AirBnB was able to attract renters, and therefore address some of the early
liquidity challenges on the marketplace. Eventually, once they
attracted enough consumers, homeowners also started using
AirBnB to rent out their homes. Another strategy is to leverage
influencers who have a large base of followers. To address liquidity challenges,
an entrepreneur might consider hiring paid advisors who
are influencers in that market. Who can get the word out to a large base
of followers, and bring them on board. And once they have brought, one side of the market on board,
you can now focus on the other side. Yet another strategy, especially for
transactions that do not require real-time fulfillment,
is manual matching of supply and demand. So in instances, where one side of the
market might be able to place orders on your website, and then you might
manually match them to the other side by calling potential suppliers or providers. And finally,
you might be able to leverage one side to market to the other
side of your marketplace. For example, consider Etsy,
which is a marketplace for handmade and vintage products. Many Etsy sellers have their own small
storefronts in different cities, and they bring many buyers
to the Etsy platform. In short, two-sided marketplaces have
many unique considerations due to network effects, and due to the challenges
associated with building liquidity. But there exists many strategies that
are available to the entrepreneur, ranging from pricing,
to leveraging influencers, to getting one side of the market to
do the marketing for you in some ways. And in fact, there exists many
successful marketplaces out there, so we can borrow hacks and
ideas from these successful marketplaces. Having said that, much of our upcoming
discussion on digital marketing, including topics such as search engine optimization
and social media marketing, are just as applicable to two-sided markets as
they are for any other entrepreneur.