In this module, we shall
look at how we can use historical data on
actual purchases to measure price elasticity. We'll do it in the context of the package delivery
company case. I hope you had a
chance to attempt the package delivery case, in case you have not, please do so prior to
studying this module. The data in the case are adapted from an
HBS case study on FedEx when they launched a new document delivery
service called Courier Pack. This new service was launched, they had data on prices and
unit sales for 29 weeks. Even though pricing was not
a key aspect of this case, I think these data are quite useful in our context of
measuring price elasticity. The company use
what we popularly called as penetration
pricing strategy, which is to start with a low price and slowly
increase the price, as you can see from the data. The question in front
of the company is, should they raise
their price one more time and this time
by another dollar? As we do not have
access to cause data, let's focus on the impact of
price changes on revenues. If you look at the data, they start with a very low
price of five dollars. They observe some
unit sales in Week 1, and they keep that same price, and towards Week 7 or so, they raise their price to 8.50. Then they get to Week 13, they raise their price to $10, and then they raise
their price to 11.50, and right now in week Number 29, the price is at 12.50, and the question is, should they increase their
price by one more dollar? I'm sure many of you when
you analyze these data, you use the regression analysis. Once again, if you're not familiar with the
regression analysis, please look at the module on regression analysis,
the optional module. It will help you get a better understanding
of what we mean by regression analysis. But the natural
thing to do here is, try to relate unit sales to
price and run a regression. That's what I also did. I'm sure many of you did that. I looked at the results
and what do I find? I see a positive
price coefficient. Every time this model will say, If I increase my
price by one dollar, my unit sales will
go up by $109. Now that clearly may not
be a good conclusion, even though we may
want this to happen, it is unlikely to happen. It's probably there
is a problem with our analysis that is
leading to this result. You might see that
in many cases, wherever a company has launched a new product and is using
penetration pricing, and the product has
become successful. Over time, the sales will grow and you'll see a
positive price coefficient. If you just simply run a regression of
sales against price. Does it really mean
that price increases will result in demand
increases? Probably not. Then it's good to ask
what else is going on while prices are increasing? Well, maybe most likely the company increased
its advertising. Most likely there was
some word of mouth. There was some
diffusion effects. As the product took off, more people talk to one
another and the sales spread. If you've just plot
sales against time, you can see sales are
increasing with time and what is also happening is price is increasing with time. What you are really observing
is prices capturing some of the variation that
is happening with time and time is a surrogate
for many other things. It could be a surrogate
for diffusion, word of mouth effect. It could be a surrogate for
other hidden variables that we don't have access to or the company
didn't keep a tab on. Maybe they increase their
sales force also over time. What would be a better way
to analyze these data? But a better way to do it
would be to include time as a covariant because it captures or summarizes many other things that are going on
at the same time. The next analysis I did was run a regression not just with
price as the x-variable, but also price and weeks
as the x-variables. When I did that,
what do we find? We find a very good fit. Again, R square is quite high, but now you see a price
coefficient of minus 44. What does that mean? Once you take out
the effect of time, and time is a surrogate
for word of mouth, it could be a surrogate
for increase in advertising, increase
in salesforce. The net effect of price on
unit sales is negative. That's what you'd expect. Now I have more
confidence in my analysis that yes if I'm
increasing price, once you account
for other things, the effect of price
is lower unit sales. But then the next question is, what does this price coefficient mean in terms of business terms? What do I do with it? Does it mean demand is elastic because the coefficient
is more than minus 1? Well, that is not correct because this is the
coefficient of price, but not the elasticity. We must use this coefficient
to then compute elasticity. How do we do that? Let's
say we are in Week 29. Our unit sales are 1,304 in Week 29 and our price was 12.50. What does the model tell us? The model tells us
is that if I were to increase my price
by one dollar, the unit sales will
go down by 44. What does that imply in
terms of elasticity? Per one dollar change
in price in terms of percentage terms is one
dollar divided by 12.50. Where is 12.50 coming from, this is our price in Week 29, so that means an eight
percent change in price. What is the percentage change in sales predicted by the model? Well, that is 44
divided by 1304. Where is 44.15 coming from? It is the estimated
regression coefficient. Where is 1304 coming from? Well, that's the unit
sales in Week 29. If you look at that,
that's minus 3.39 percent. What is the estimated
elasticity? The estimated elasticity
is percentage change in unit sales divided by
percentage change in price. That's minus 3.39 divided by 8, which is minus 0.42. What does that mean? It is somewhere between
zero and minus one, therefore, demand is inelastic. What does it mean for
demand being inelastic? If we raise prices, revenues will go up. Why? Because if we raise
price by one percent, the unit sales change
will be less than one percent because
the elasticity is less than minus one, or between zero and
minus one in this case, so our revenues will go up. Our preliminary analysis
suggest that if we were to increase the price by one dollar our
revenues will go up. But then there are a number of other questions that we
should ask ourselves. Can this go on forever? Is elasticity computed
from past data? Would it work well
going forward also? We used historical
data up to week 29, but now we are talking
about week 30, week 31. Will past data be good enough to predict what
will happen in the future? You want to be confident of that before you make that
recommendation. There are two
things you could do here that I would recommend. One thing you could
do is ask yourself, is elasticity really changing
over the last 29 weeks? If it is changing significantly
over the last 29 weeks, it might change
going forward also. One way to test that, which I urge you to
do is to compute this elasticity using
the same model, maybe in week 13, maybe in week 25, and see how much is the elasticity changing
from week to week. That would be one way. Another
more sophisticated way that some of my students
will do is they would say, "Professor, let's estimate a constant elasticity
model on this data." If a constant elasticity
model fits well, it means the assumption of constant elasticity over 29
weeks is a good assumption. How would you estimate a
constant elasticity model? Well, you will do
a log-log model. If you estimate a log-log model, then you get elasticity as
the coefficient directly. If that model fits
the data well, what it means is that
the log-log model or a constant elasticity fitted the data quite well for
the first 29 weeks. It gives you more confidence that the elasticity
will be constant, even in week 30, 31 and so on, so your recommendation
of increasing the price maybe is more robust. If you estimate
the log-log model, you get a coefficient of
price which is minus 3.78. Then again, the model
fits the data quite well. The R squared is quite
high, therefore, we can now conclude that
the demand is inelastic, as well as the fact
that elasticity was quite stable over
the last 29 weeks. Therefore, with a little
bit more confidence, we can recommend that this company could increase
price by one more dollar, and revenues will
keep going forward. Once again, do keep in mind that even though
the data were simple, the analysis needed was
quite sophisticated. Why? Because when you
have historical data, you don't have as many controls that you might put
in an experiment. Experiments are
difficult to conduct, but analysis is easy. Historical data, you might get naturally from the market, but the analysis has to be sophisticated because you
don't have the controls. Once again, reflecting back
on different methods of measuring price elasticity
or price sensitivity, there are many, many
different approaches. But at the end of the day, they fall in four basic buckets. Those buckets are determined by what are you measuring and
how are you measuring. The variable being
measured could be actual purchase or it could be preferences
and intentions. The conditions of measurement
could be natural, which means data coming from the market or measured
in a controlled setting, like an in-store experiment or a laboratory experiment
or an AB testing. Actual purchases in natural
settings is what we did in the Korean pack case or in the package
delivery company case. Preferences and intentions, we did that in our first survey where we did the survey across five
groups of buyers. Different methods
but all of them fall under these
four basic buckets. If you look at
comparisons of methods, historical data if
analyzed carefully can give quite good measures
of price elasticity. Good estimates within the
existing range of operations. Going beyond the
range of operation, you have to be very careful, like we did in this
specific example. You must ensure
good controls also. What we find is when we
could look at experiments, the estimates of price
elasticity computed in experiments
invariably are higher than actual numbers
that we observe, but we can always scale them back because they are
predictably higher.