I'm Karl Ulrich,
I'm a professor at the Wharton School. This session focuses on
performance measures sometimes also called
Key Performance Indicators or KPIs. I want to start with
a story about Bandar Foods. This is Lalit Kalani and Dan Garblik
who are the founders of Bandar Foods. Bandar Foods sells Indian themed
condiments, shown here are some of their products that include condiments
like spicy mango and mint cilantro. This was actually a class project in
my innovation course in the Wharton MBA program that then went on to become a real
company and they make fantastic products. They also created a line of salty
snacks called Naan Chips and Poppadums. And those are shown here. Now the question I want to
turn to is how should Dan and Lallite measure their performance? And this is particularly important for
two reasons. First of all, they do a monthly
report to their investors. And I'm actually one of their investors so
I get this monthly report. And in this monthly report,
they want to report how they're doing. And most of the time, if you have outside
investors, they will expect a monthly report typically with some Key Performance
Indicators, or KPIs, reported. So that's the first reason you
need to have these metrics. The second reason is that you're trying
to manage and grow your business. And once you've found that
initial product market fit, your challenge is how do
you grow your business. And unless you can
measure how you're doing, you're going to have a very hard time
enacting performance improvements. So the question I want to
turn to is if you were Dan or Loliete, what performance indicators
would you use for Bandar Foods? More formally you could think about, what are the critical few metrics
that determine your success? You typically want to think
about just three to five. If there's more than that, then it's hard
to call them key performance indicators. So it's typically just
three to five key metrics. As I said, while I've called
this performance measurement, often they go by the acronym KPI For
Key Performance Indicator. And they're typically tracked and reported
at least as frequently as monthly. Very rarely are they reported
less frequently than monthly. Let me just tell you what Dan and
Lalit use and I think these are quite good metrics. They have three metrics and they think
about them as all contributing to revenue. And the three metrics,
which they call Operating Metric 1, or OM1, Operating Metric 2, or OM2,
and Operating Metric 3, or OM3. OM1 is the number of SKUs. And the acronym SKU refers
to Stock Keeping Unit. And that's simply the distinct item
that you sell to your customer. Think of it as the part number or
the product id. It's each distinct version of
the product is this distinct SKU. And operating metric one
is the number of SKU's. So how many products do we sell? That's the first. The second is how many
retailers do we have? Bandar Foods sells primarily
through food stores. And so, the more retailers they have,
the more product they're going to sell. So it's a pretty simple metric,
which is simply how many retail stores do we have that
currently carry our products? That's OM2. And the third metric is sales velocity. And in retailing,
velocity typically is characterized as units sold, per sku,
per store, per week. So how many of a particular item in a particular store
are typically sold per week. That's called the sales velocity. Now just to put some concrete
numbers on that for Bandar, let's imagine they have 10 SKUs
they're selling in 10,000 stores and that they sell 3 units per
sku per store per week. That value would be three. If you just multiplied those altogether, then what you would get would be 10 times
10,000 is 100,000 times three is 300,000. Which would say they sell
300,000 items per week, if they were able to achieve those
parameters as I've just described them. And so you can quickly see that any
increase in any one of those three parameters would have
a multiplicative effect and would increase what they really
care about, which is their revenue. Now notice that this isn't a perfect
description of Bandar's revenue. For instance, it fails to account for
the price point of this SKUs and so obviously a sku that has a $10
price point is going to contribute more revenue than one that
has a $1 price point. So it essentially glosses over that or
ignores that and as a key performance indicator,
the objective is to keep it simple and to keep management focused on what it is
they need to achieve in order to grow and sustain the business. In Bandar's case, they identified these
three as being the three key metrics for growth, and these three metrics
are reported every month for Bandar. And in fact all of Bandar's
initiatives and plans are organized by the way in which they contribute towards
one or more of these three metrics. Now Bandar is just one example and
it's a relatively simple example of a business that sells
relatively few, relatively straight forward products through a relatively
simple channel, a retail store. There are companies that have more
complex distribution channels, more complex financial models and I wanted
to show you a second example to give you a sense of an alternative set of KPI's
that are used for a different company. This company, Gridium, was also started
by two of my former students and they sell software to large commercial
buildings, software that helps manage energy consumption and work orders in
terms of maintaining the building. Gridium each month sends
out this PowerPoint slide that they call the State of Biz,
Current Month, State of Biz. This is the Gridium dashboard
that's sent to investors as part of their monthly update. Now, the details here are much too fine
for me to walk through in this format. And so I don't expect you to actually
read the details of this slide. I do want to just show
you what it feels like, what it looks like in
terms of a dashboard. And I'm just going to describe the six
categories of things that are reported on this slide. The first is, the monthly
recurring revenue by product type. So in this case Gridium has four types of
products, for instance it has some energy efficiency products and it has some
work order maintenance products. It breaks out monthly
recurring revenue by type so you can see where
the revenue is coming from. It also focuses on recurring revenue
because the Giridium products are sold as subscriptions. And so what you really care about at
Gridium is not how many units are sold in a store each week, but
rather how much recurring revenue, that is subscription revenue, do I have booked that's going to recur
month after month, out into the future? That's the key performance indicator for
this kind of business. The next metric is to look at
that same revenue by geography. And that informs the question of how
are we doing in Northern California, relative to say Southern California, or
to other parts of their geographic market? The third KPI is monthly
recurring revenue per account and so this shows how much revenue
were we getting for each customer. And is that growing or declining? In other words are we able to get
an increasing share of the budget of our existing customers as
opposed to smaller and smaller shares of budget for
more and more customers? And that's an important measure for
Gridium. The fourth metric is monthly
recurring revenue per building. So this takes the perspective
of what share of spending on a particular geographic site, that is
particular building is Gridium getting. The fifth metric is the monthly recurring
revenue per account broken out by product. So it shows what are the accounts buying? How is their distribution of spending
across our different products? Are most customers buying just one product
or are they buying several products? And lastly, the dashboard
also reports the customer and building counts by product type. That simply is an indicator
of how many customers and how many sites do we actually have. So this gives you an example of
a comprehensive dashboard for a very different kind of business
that shows six basic KPIs, or performance indicators, that report
the health of the business both for the purpose of outside investors and for the purpose of managing
the growth of the business. Now while I'm talking about dashboards and
KPIs, I wannna indicate that not all reporting is based
on numerical perimeters. So this is another slide from
Gridium's Monthly PowerPoint that they share with investors and
they use a stoplight metaphor, a traffic light metaphor to indicate how
they're doing relative to key goals. So shown here are three goals that
they set out for last year for 2015. And then a traffic light indicator
as to whether it's green, yellow, or red, how are we doing relative to
the goal we set out for ourself? And I want to put this up just to indicate
to you that not everything we care about in growing the start-up can
be characterized with numbers. And so, some things might be expressed
better as a narrative, as a description of a goal and then a narrative reporting
or as a qualitative reporting perhaps using the traffic light metaphor of how
we're doing relative to those goals. So in sum, if we think about
creating a dash board and a set of key performance indicators,
think about which few metrics truly indicate the health of your business
whether or not you're growing or not. And are you going to
achieve profitability? What are the few key metrics that truly
indicate the health of your business? These are your KPIs. These become
the Key Performance Indicators. There's typically just
three to five of these. You'll typically track and
report these, first and foremost, to help you as the entrepreneur
better manage your business. But you'll also typically provide
them in at least monthly reports, to your investors, as a way to
reveal basically how you're doing. Are you in fact growing this fledgling
enterprise to be something sustainable?