Another good way to start thinking
about whether your new idea will fly is to talk to as many
domain experts as you can. If you're launching a new medical device,
talk to doctors but also talk to nurses and
those who work in hospital administration. If you're launching a new retail concept,
talk to potential buyers. But also talk to retail stores,
sales people and even suppliers. Talk to your college professors or
those who taught you in school and get their input as well if you can. You should ask the experts to give you
their forecasts whenever possible in a quantitative manner. Ask them why demand may
exceed their forecasts. And also asked them why
it might come out lower. It forces them to think harder about
the number they are giving you. Eventually, you should combine these
forecasts to reduce errors because some of them maybe predicting a little bit higher
and other predicting a little bit lower. And what we have learned through
research is combining diverse forecasts thoughtfully actually reduces the error
because they are negatively correlated. Also look at other similar products or
what we call as analogies and ideas in other product categories that
exist and see why they are successful. If you're launching a new direct to
consumer pet food, think of who your buyers might be and look at what else
have these buyers adopted recently. Something new that they
have started buying. You can look at analogies
across countries also. If you are planning to launch
a direct to consumer eyeglasses, business company in India,
look at what Warby Parker did in the US. In summary, to gain more understanding
about forecasting demand and forecasting In general, I'd like you to read two
excellent sources that may be useful. My colleague at Wharton, Professor Scott Armstrong has spent his
entire career studying forecasting. Another colleague at Wharton Professor
Phil Tetlock has studied what it makes one person a better forecaster than another. I urge you to apply what we
have learned in this module and I wish you success in your new venture.