Demand decomposition is a well-known proven method
for forecasting demand. We shall demonstrate
this method in the context of two examples. The first example we shall
consider is an example of estimating demand for
car-sharing in Philadelphia. The next one is demand for
toothbrushes in India. Let's start with the demand for Uber or car-sharing
in Philadelphia. In demand decomposition
exercises, we invariably start
at the highest level, and here we'll start with the
population of Philadelphia. The next step is to figure out those who need
transportation. If we are specific, maybe it's
transportation to work or it could be more
general transportation. Next step would be to
multiply that with those who prefer personal transportation
over public transit, and then multiply that with
those who do not own the car. Then those who will prefer Uber over other
means such as taxi. If you multiply Philadelphia
population times those who need transportation
times those who prefer personal transportation
over public transport times those who do not own their own car times those who prefer Uber or other
means such as taxi, you get an estimate for demand for Uber or
ride-sharing in Philadelphia. Again, each of these
multiplications is by a fraction. If you look back in
this application, we had two steps where we
use the word or phrase, those who prefer A or B. How do we find this out? One way to do this is to ask people's preferences
or intentions. However, we know from
previous research that people often do not report their
intentions accurately. Even if they report
them accurately, oftentimes they don't behave according to the intentions
that they had reported. This is a complex problem, but it's a solvable problem, and there are methods
available to make intentions a better
predictor of behavior. There is a lot of work and
research done on that, but this is beyond the scope
of this specific module. But have the confidence
that you can, using these methods, make intentions a better
predictor of behavior. Now, let's look at
a second example which is a little
bit more detailed. Let's think of a company
wanting to better understand demand potential
for toothbrushes in India. Because it probably wants to market a different a toothbrush. Again, demand
decomposition model is a useful method in this
particular example as well. Again, we start at
the highest level. What is the population of India? This number is
readily available. Next, we look at how
many people brush their teeth with some form
of device or another. Some people use neem twigs in India and others use
a regular toothbrush. These data are usually available
from studies published by the government and other organizations such as the ADA. The next step will be to look at the frequency of brushing. Frequency of brushing
varies in every country. Not everyone brushes
two times a day. Some people brush once a day. Some people brush
less frequently, even though we are supposed
to brush two times a day. But the variance is
probably more in India. These data will
come from surveys that you have to conduct or
have already been conducted. Finally, after how
many sessions of brushing is a brush
replaced on average? There is a variance here as
well across the population, and this can also be obtained
by surveys or observation. The company in
question did all this and came up with a very
nice demand model. Starting with the Indian
population at about 1.2 billion. Those who brush with
some device or another, close to 50 percent, and of those who brush, how many of them use
traditional means versus how many of them use a
store-bought brush that we know as a toothbrush. Then number of brushing
sessions per year, how many times do
they brush a year? The data suggested
that on average, people brushed once a day, so 29 brushings in a
month times 12 months. Then the next question
that they asked was, how often do people
replace a brush? On average in India, based on the studies, it was after 160 of brushings. That's once every
five months or so. Then that leads to
when you multiply the total population
with the fraction who brushed times fraction who
use store-bought brushes, number of times they brush and how often they
replaced the brush, you get an estimate of demand
for toothbrushes in India. That number, you should
check to validate your analysis whether it is close to the actual
demand today. Now the next question is, what can you do to
increase the demand? Well, that's what these
models are very good at. Maybe you can increase demand. You can't change the
population of India, or at least that's not
under your control. It change on its own. Maybe you want to persuade people to press for
the first time. But that will require a very strong health message on the importance of dental care. Alternatively, you may
want to target people who use neem twigs and convert
them to toothbrushes. Or not worry about that, just focus on the
incidence of brushing. People on average are
brushing once a day. Maybe you want to
convince them that brushing twice a day
is more important. Or alternatively, you
could convince people to replace their brushes
more often because keeping the brush for a long
time is not as healthy. What does demand
decomposition give us? It gives us an estimate
of the demand. But more importantly, it tells us how to increase the demand. What are the levers we
have under our control? Based on this model, we can come up with ideas on how to enhance the demand for
toothbrushes in India. We could persuade
more people to brush. We could urge people who use twigs to shift to a toothbrush. Maybe an entrepreneur could come up with an inexpensive
toothbrush that will convince people
who are using twigs to use toothbrushes, or one could urge users to replace their
brushes more often. Demand decomposition
allows us to also identify levers that can be used to increase demand
for our product, and also identify how you might position your
product in the market. In summary, forecasting
demand is probably one of the most critical aspects
of launching a new venture. We started this in
three different ways. First, by using the
ACCORD model developed by Professor Everett Rogers
to examine whether or not our idea has a good chance
of becoming successful. Then we discussed
qualitative methods such as using expert opinions, benchmarking, and
combining forecasts. Finally, we studied
demand decomposition, often referred to
as the chain rule. I urge you to apply one or more of these methods
to your new idea. I wish you all success.