In this module we shall discuss the van Westendorp method for measuring maximum
willingness to pay. Peter van Westendorp, a Dutch economist
proposed this method in 1976 and is often referred to as the van Westendorp's
price sensitivity meter. It is a very useful
approach to understand the economic viability of
a new product concept, as it gives us an estimate of
an acceptable price range. For example, if the
concept is not financially viable at even the
highest suggested price by the method, it may not be worth
investing in. This method is empirically
based, logical, but I'm not familiar with any formal peer review published comparisons with
other approaches. It is yet very often
used in practice, so it's good to know
and learn this method. Many consulting companies and market research firms use it, and I've also used it to help some Wharton
students' startups, and we shall discuss one of
these later in this module. Before we go into
details of the method, a baseline approach
to consider is, why not just ask people
what is the maximum they're willing to pay for a new product or a new service? Most likely, respondents will not give
us an accurate answer, and there may be many
reasons for that. One of the reasons could be, maybe they just do
not know the answer. Another reason could be, maybe they will
game their answers. Maybe they will give us
a low number hoping to benefit from the low price we set based on their responses. An alternative to consider is, why not infer the maximum
willingness to pay indirectly? That is exactly what the
van Westendorp method does. The indirect approach
is the foundation of many good customer
research methods as we will see later
in this course. What does the van
Westendorp method require? It requires that we ask each
respondent four questions. Question number 1, at what price would you say that Product X
would be a bargain? Question number 2, at what price would you say that Product X would
be getting expensive, but you would still
consider buying it? At what price would you say that Product X would be too
expensive to consider? Then finally, at what price
would you say that Product X would be too cheap
such that you would question whether it
would work at all? These four questions
are the key questions that are asked of
each respondent in the van Westendorp method. There is some discussion amongst various consulting companies as to the right order to
ask these questions. But in much of the
work that I have done, I've asked them in
this particular order, which is start with the bargain, then getting expensive, and then too expensive, and then at the very
end ask the question, at what price would
you think it is too cheap that you would question whether it would
work at all or not? Then the question is, what
do we do with these answers? Let's say we've asked 100 consumers each of
these four questions. The next thing is to put
those answers together and get some tables
or plots out of that. Let's say we start
tabulating the results. Let's look at one question which is too expensive to consider, and we look at the data
from all 100 respondents, and what do we find? At a price of 100, nobody has considered
this to be too expensive. At a price of 200, 25 percent considered
it to be too expensive. At a price of 300, 50 percent considered
it to be too expensive. By the time we get to 500, everyone who we asked considers
this to be too expensive. By the way keep in mind, we are not asking them whether it's too
expensive at 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500. These ranges are coming freely to us based
on their responses. Same way, you can look at
the answers to the question, too cheap to consider. If you look at the table,
what are we seeing? At a price of 500 no one considers this
too cheap to consider. Same is true at 300, but by the time we get to 50 every person has said that at that price it is too
cheap to consider. What you are doing
here is tabulating people's responses and creating these ranges out of them
as they give it to you, but you are not putting
the ranges yourself, you are not giving
any signal of what is the price to consider in
each of those questions. This is a free floating
answer from the respondents. You are just putting
the data together. Now when we plot these data, we do two other things
that are interesting. For the question bargain when we plot the data we flip it
and call it not a bargain. How do we do that? Let's
look at the table bargain. At $500, nobody said it
was a bargain, $400, nobody said it was a bargain and by the time it was $100, everyone said it was a bargain. But when we plot it, we will reverse the y-axis
and we'll say not a bargain. Wherever there was 100 percent, that becomes zero percent, wherever there was 75 percent, that becomes 25 percent. That's how we plot these data. That's pretty customary in
the Van Westendorp method. What might these
plots look like? Let's look at those. We have now four curves corresponding to each
of the questions. These curves intersect with each other, as you can imagine. There are four key
intersection points. The first to consider is the intersection of too
cheap and expensive, which is plotted as not a
bargain in green color. What does that point do? That points to the, according to the Van
Westendorp method, the point of marginal cheapness. The second point to focus on
is the upper bound of price, which is the intersection of
too expensive and bargain. Or in other word, not expensive, which
is the reverse of it. That's the point of
marginal expensiveness. That is where people
who think it's too expensive is becoming equal to the people who
think it's a bargain. That's the intersection point, is the number of people
who think it's too expensive is equal to the number of people who
think it's a bargain. The two other points of
intersection that are extremely useful is the intersection
of expensive and bargain. This is the point at which
the number of respondents in your sample who think it's expensive is equal
to the number of respondents who think
it is a bargain. It is often referred to as
the indifference point. Point at which the number
of consumers who think it's expensive is equal to the number of consumers
who think it's a bargain. Then probably the most
important intersection point, is the intersection between
too cheap and too expensive. That according to
Van Westendorp, would be the optimal
price point. That is where the number of
consumers who think it is too cheap is equal to the number of consumers who think
it is too expensive. That's what the
method recommends is the optimal price point. To me, points 1 and 2
are just as important. That gives you the range of prices you can charge
for a new idea. It's the lowest and the highest. As I said earlier, if your product concept is
not economically viable, even at the highest end of the price points that
the method is suggesting, it is probably not
worth investing in. An extension of the
Van Westendorp method also allows you to compute the corresponding
demand functions and the corresponding
revenue functions. We will talk about that
in an optional module. Now let me talk about an application to a
Wharton students startup. These students were thinking of taking a medical
device to the market. Without going into details
of the medical device, they use the Van Westendorp
method as one of the approaches to understand what price the market may
be willing to pay for this. What you are seeing
in this table are the four charts of prices that their
respondents gave them. The respondents included
nurses, doctors, and hospital administrators who actually paid for the product. From these four curves, the students were able to infer the indifference
price point, the optimal price point, the point of marginal cheapness, and the point of
marginal expensiveness and they use this as guidelines of taking
their new product forward in their startup. In summary, the Van Westendorp
method is quite useful for assessing the
economic viability of a new product concept by
suggesting a good price range. You do not need to
have the product or the service ready as long as it can be well articulated
to your respondent base. The method is empirically
based and is logical. It is very often
used in practice. It's used by many market
research companies as well as well-known
consulting firms. It is good to learn the method
and have it as a tool in your arsenal as you make
good pricing decisions.