In this module, we shall study one of the most critical
challenges faced by an entrepreneur. How do I forecast demand for my new
idea that I plan to take to the market, but more than that oftentimes
bet my life on it. Under forecasting is just as problem
problematic as over forecasting. If you're under forecast,
you're losing an opportunity. Forecasting is not easy, but we can use
some simple proven methods to improve our estimates and more importantly,
learn how to influence demand. If it is low or if it's expected to
be low, what can we do to improve it? We shall think of this
problem in two parts. In the first part, we shall ask
the question, will my idea take off, what are some of the common
characteristics of ideas and products that make them take off and
how well they do and how does my idea stack
up on those criteria? In the second part, we shall ask the
question, how do I quantify the demand for my product and more importantly,
what can I do to influence it? What levels do I have under my
control that can influence demand? So, let's start on the first
part will this idea take off? Professor Everett Rogers wrote a classic
book titled Diffusion of Innovations. This was founded foundational work based
on his many years of research studying what kind of innovations took off and
which did not. Professor Rogers grew up on a farm and
started to ponder why some innovations were adopted by
farmers and why some were not. I had the privilege of taking a course
with Professor Rogers when I was a PhD student at Stanford University. Professor Rogers distilled his findings
into six criteria that determine the success or failure of a new idea. These have come to be
known as the accord model. So, what are these six characteristics,
and what does accord stand for? So, A stands for advantage or
more specifically relative advantage, this could oftentimes be
the economic advantage. Will my idea save the customer some money,
but not always. It could also be, will this idea
provide some emotional benefit or some symbolic benefit? We shall talk about this later. C stands for compatibility or,
more precisely, the first C stands for compatibility. Are the methods needed to use or apply the
new idea similar to the ones we used for in the existing products that
the customers are using. The second C in accord stands for
complexity, how easy it is for me to understand why this
new idea will deliver or perform what it claims to
deliver on performance. Is the science or the logic behind
the idea is simple to understand. O stands for observability,
if one user were to adopt this idea, will other users be able to see and then adopted themselves in essence
imitate behavior in today's world? We can also add that, will the product
naturally generate word of mouth, either online or offline? R stands for risk,
how risky is the adoption, what if the product does not work,
what's the downside? Clearly, there could be
an economic downside. But Professor Rogers also highlighted the
social risk along with the economic risk. What will others say if the new
idea adopted does not work? Will I appear like
a fool amongst my peers? And finally D stands for divisibility, can I try this idea at a smaller
scale before both going full stream? So, those are the six characteristics
that make the accord model. Let's now try to bring this to life and let's look at an example that's close to
my heart and also involves all of you. Let us think of Whalton's decision
to offer an online course on entrepreneurship, the one
you are enrolled in. Wharton in the past only offered
such courses in person and you have to come to campus
to take these courses. Let us now try to use the ACCORD model and
put it in practice to see if Wharton's idea of offering an online course
on entrepreneurship will fly. A relative advantage, clearly,
the online course has some advantages. It is less expensive, you can take it at
your own convenience, it's on demand. But it may not give you the same
opportunity to connect with expert professors at Wharton,
shake their hand, meet them personally, as well as peer learners as
effectively as an in person course. But clearly,
it has some relative advantages. Now, let's look at compatibility, this
is a more complex question in this case. Online learning is quite different
than learning in person, but from a capability perspective,
if you have a computer, internet access and
you're used to learning online. Then taking an online course on
entrepreneurship is quite compatible with taking other online
courses on other topics. So, what does it mean,
if you have taken other courses online, our online course is quite compatible
with the other online courses. May be different than in person courses,
but quite compatible with other online
learning, other online courses. And online learning happens beyond
just courses we learn online through other methods also. Complexity, will online learning
deliver what you expect? Is there some basis to claim that
the learning will be effective, Wharton may have to give you
some evidence that it does. This could be testimonials
from other learners. Note that as we evaluate the new idea
on these criteria, it also forces us to focus on what we need to do to correct
some of the weaknesses of the new idea. If we believe on complexity scale on
a one to seven, it rates at three or four people will not know whether
this will deliver the same level of learning as an in person course,
we must provide some evidence. Evidence could come, as I said,
in the form of testimonials. Now let's go to O, observability,
if one learner takes this course, will others be able to observe and
then follow? The answer to this is probably no, you're taking this course in the privacy
of your own home or in the office. But we could tackle that problem by
offering badges that you put on your Linkedin page, then your friends will be
able to see that you took the course. You can see how we are coming
up with solutions as well as we are looking at challenges. R, risk, this can take many forms,
what if you do not get what you expected, the fee you spent on the course
will not have paid off. Time you spent, would also not pay off,
but then is this risk more or less than other ways of learning
about entrepreneurship? And one way to tackle risk is we go to the
next criteria which is divisibility and divisibility is one way to mitigate risk. So, what do we mean by divisibility here,
can you try this new idea, the new online course at a small
scale before taking it on fully? The answer is clearly yes,
wharton can offer a free trial option, you can sample the course before
taking the entire course. And this divisibility
aspect also mitigates risk. What we were trying here was
to learn a framework and practice applying it in a familiar
setting, Wharton evaluating whether or not to offer an online
course on entrepreneurship. I now urge you to apply the ACCORD model
to your idea that you are passionate about. As you apply the model, rate your idea on a scale of 1-7
on each of the six dimensions. But also ask yourself if the idea
rates low on a particular dimension, what can I do to improve
it on that dimension? Just like we thought about this in
the case of Whalton online course on entrepreneurship. Also have your friends evaluate
your idea using the ACCORD model. I know investors who use some
version of this model formally, and many use it informally when they
evaluate ideas that are pitched to them.