Hi I'm Kartik and in this session we're going to talk
about digital marketing strategies. Before we discuss any specific
digital marketing strategies, it is useful to look at the entire
landscape of digital marketing and identify the set of
options available to us. At the high level, we can classify digital marketing
strategies into three main buckets. The first is owned media. The second is paid media. And the third is earned media. Owned media refers to web properties
that you own or you create. For example, your own website,
your mobile apps, social media channels where you might create a Facebook page or
a Twitter channel for yourself, blogs where you create
the content, and things of that nature. Paid media is essentially
the world of advertising. It includes marketing on search engines. It includes social ads. It includes display or banner ads and
it also include affiliate marketing. And finally, earned media refers to
third-party mentions by bloggers, reviewers, or even your customers who
might Tweet about your product or discuss your product on Facebook. In short, earned media is, essentially,
mentions about your brand that you didn't necessarily create, you didn't pay for
it, you literally earned it. Let's begin by talking about owned media. When we create a website, we are used to
asking how to design the website content so as to best serve our
user's information needs. But from a marketing perspective,
we also have to address how to design these websites to ensure discovery
of our website by a search engine. And how to ensure our website places
prominently in the search engine results. Similarly with regard to social media, we might ask which social media
platforms to engage with. For example should we engage
with Facebook and Twitter or LinkedIn or Pinterest or any other
social media platform that's out there. And given the choice of any platform, what kind of content should
we create on that platform? Similarly we might ask, how do we engage with our email
subscribers with effective email content? Furthermore, the role of digital marketing
is not just customer acquisition, but it also includes customer retention,
cross-selling, and up-selling products. So one might ask,
how do we design our website to ensure that customers can
find products easily on it? Personalization is a very important
tool to help in this process. Personalization on the web is often
enabled by software known as recommender systems. Recommender systems are tools that attempt
to predict items of interest to users based on some information about
those users and the items or products that we carry. For example, we are used to messages like people who bought this product
also bought this other product. Or people like you liked
these other products. These are systems that help consumers
find new products that are of interest. They also help them sort
through their alternatives and select the product that's right for them. For example,
if I'm looking to buy a DSLR camera, I might find that a store like
Amazon carries several dozen DSLRs. But when I look at an individual product,
I might see a message that says people who viewed this product
eventually bought this other product. And that can help me direct my
search a little bit better so that instead of looking 50 or 60 different
cameras, I focus my attention on three or four more relevant opportunities. Recommender Systems offer value
not just to consumers but also the firms that deploy these systems. For firms they help them
in cross-selling products. They help in converting
browsers to buyers. And they help increase loyalty by
creating a custom browsing experience. As a result, these systems are used by
most of the major online e-commerce and media firms. For example, in retail,
we might be used to seeing certain products recommended
to us on the homepage. Or when we select a specific
product ,we might see messages such as people who bought this
product bought these other products. These systems not only offer
value to consumers but they have a significant
impact on consumer choice. For example, one study suggests
that nearly a third of sales at Amazon originated from recommendations
that the website makes, in other words, this contributes to billions
of dollars of sales at Amazon. And similarly,
another study says that roughly about 80% of media streams on Netflix
originates from recommendations. Personalization systems are crucial for e-commerce companies that offer
large product assortments. Think of an online store like Amazon that
offers maybe dozens of smart phones or dozens of cameras. When consumers are faced with so
many choices, recommenders can help them focus on a narrower set of
more relevant alternatives. And this ultimately can help
drive transactions and sales. Similarly for media companies that generate revenues
from advertising, recommendation systems can be crucial in increasing
customer engagement on the website. So for example, on YouTube,
personalization allows YouTube to recommend other videos that
are relevant to the user. And a user who comes into the website
to view one video might end up leaving the website eventually
after watching ten other videos, therefore increasing advertising
revenues for the company. Now if you determine that
personalization is relevant for your website,
it is important to recognize that there are several third party tools that
provide personalization as a service. So, you don't necessarily have
to reinvent the wheel and build a personalization
system from scratch. There are many third party
vendors like Monetate and Rich Relevence that offer
personalization as a service. Furthermore, there are several open source
tools available such as Apache Mahout which can be used if you have some
technical resources or skills in house. Moving on from owned media,
let's talk about paid media. As far paid media is concerned, we have
several options ranging from sponsor search on search engines like Google to
social ads on platforms like Facebook, to display our banner ads
on publisher websites. The questions to answer here include, how
much to spend on each of these platforms. Once we have made that decision, how do we
manage our ad campaigns on these websites? Another option available
is affiliate marketing which involves paying a partner to
promote your products to their users. Now with affiliate marketing, an important
question to answer is which companies to approach for
affiliate marketing partnerships. Finally, moving on to earned media. How do you get customers to discuss your
products on social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook? What incentives might you want
to offer to these customers for discussing your products? How do you identify and
engage influencers? Finally, with regard to earned media,
how do you get customers to discuss your products on social media platforms
like Twitter and Facebook. And what incentives might you want
to offer to these customers for discussing your products on
these social media platforms? How do you identify and
engage influencers? For example in fashion and battle,
bloggers and YouTube video bloggers can have significant influence
on decisions made by your customers. So you could consider engaging influencers
as paid advisors at your company. In summary, an effective digital
marketing campaign accounts for all the available options in terms
of paid, owned, and earned media. And it accounts for the individual elements associated
with each of these media options and identifies the ones that are best suited
for your product and for your customers. In the next few sessions,
we'll explore each of these ideas further with regard to owned,
earned, and paid media.