Hi I'm Lori Rosenkopf. I'm the Vice Dean of the Wharton Undergrad
Division, and today's session we'll be talking about networks,
innovation, and entrepreneurship. What I'd like to do in this
session is a little bit different. We're going to spend some time first
of all just talking about the basic principles of network theory. And then connect how those
relate to innovation and ultimately get to the implications for
entrepreneurship. So, the kinds of things we'll be talking
about, you'll see we'll weave to many of the topics that you seen both before,
and after this session as well. This figure depicts a very
simple social network. Now, you're all familiar with social
networks because you're embedded in them and interacting in social
network apps all the time. But at its simplest we can think of
a network as just a set of actors who are connected by some sort of relationship
that allows information to flow. So in this picture,
we have 11 people who are connected, some of them more connected than others. And when we talked about network, to think
about networks, everything that we'll talk about today is going to be underlaid
by the following assumptions. The idea is that the set of
network contexts that you have, the nature of the relationships between
these context and the overall pattern of these relationships are going to determine
whether you have more or less access to resources, whether they be information,
referrals, endorsements, support, etc. These patterns, and
nature of relationships, are going to affect the opportunities
that you have to create and mobilize linkages, get a movement behind
what you're trying to accomplish. These patterns are going to affect
your ability to get noticed and get things done. So that's the underlying assumption. And when we look at our 11 people here, you can see that they each have
a different stock of context, relationships with the context,
and between those contexts. When I ask people to look at a chart like
this and say who would you like to be, most people's attention gravitates
towards number 9 or number 6, because those are the players
that are in the thick of things. Of course there's usually one joker who
says I'd like to be number 1, I'd like to be left alone for a while to get some
of my work done, but we know that's not a good long term strategy, that being in
the thick of things does really matter. By the same token, though, another argument would
be you'd like to be number 11. Why? Number 11 is right next to number 9. 9's spending a lot of effort
to get all this information. 11 can get it all from 9. So in some ways, 11's in a great situation
because they don't have to work as hard for the information but by the same token,
they're totally indebted to 9 and 9 can hold them up if they're not
going to be fully cooperative. So with these kinds of ideas in mind, and this focusing on numbers 9 and number
6 and this volume of information flow. Now we want to get a little
bit more careful and thinking about which sorts of network
positions are most effective. To do that I'm going to talk about three different characteristics of
high performing networks and we'll take each them in turn,
Diversity, Brokerage and then Trust. So, this will help us start to sort out between different sorts of network
patterns and relationships. Let's start by talking about
diversity in networks. Here, I'm portraying a very simple
comparison between two people with the same number of contacts. 1 and 2, in these simple network pictures,
each have exactly five contacts. And I've set it up this way so that we can
assume that they're both doing the exact same amount of work to
maintain these contacts. And I'm talking about real contacts here. I'm not talking about the people who you
can tabulate because you've met them once at a conference and
your gigantic list of LinkedIn contacts or Facebook contacts or
Tweeter contacts and the like. But instead, these are the people who
you really have relationship with. Who you're spending effort to let them
know about the information that's of value to them. You're inviting them for coffee, you're
staying in touch with them and the like. So, real contacts. One and two both have the same number
of contacts, so you would assume all other things equal that they'd
get the same amount of information. Look what happens when we introduce some
colors to represent the type of knowledge that each of your contacts
are bringing to the network. Here we see that number two is
getting the same information over and over again from all the different
contacts whereas actor number one is getting not only purple information,
but red, and blue, and green as well. So right now I'm just using abstract
colors to represent different sorts of knowledge, but this idea of having
diverse knowledge inputs coming to you through your network connections
is going to be really important. Let's make this more concrete. One of the ways to think about those
different colors might be that, if you're working in
an organization currently, at a particular function, are all of your
contacts in the same function as you or from different functional
areas in the organization? That is, if you're in marketing, are all
the people who are providing you with the information you need to get your
job done, are they also in marketing? Or are they spread more generally
through production and R&D and other parts of your organization? That's knowledge diversity. Another way to think about it would be, is
everyone in your professional specialty. Are you a doctor, a lawyer? Are all of your contacts also doctors or
lawyers, or are you looking at a much broader set of people who might use your
services, which would give you again different knowledge and different
inputs that could be really helpful. And let me be clear, when I use the term
diversity, much attention these days is rightly on demographic diversity, and
while your networks may or may not have demographic diversity, that may or may not
be correlated with knowledge diversity. And here because we're focusing on
the knowledge inputs that your network is creating for you, we're really interested
in the knowledge that people have, regardless of their
demographic characteristics. Because it's the mix of different kinds
of knowledge that really is the engine, is the source of innovation and that's work from economics that goes
all the way back to Joseph Schumpeter. How can you think about getting
more diversity in your networks? It's worthwhile to take some stock
of the networks that you have, the contacts that provide you with
the knowledge, the resources that you need to get your current job done,
the things you'd like to get done. And to decide if you
need to find ways to get new contacts into your network that would
help improve that knowledge diversity. And again, that knowledge diversity
has been associated with better ideas. And also in research the opportunity for,
for example, semiconductor startup firms
to have more alliances with companies. And that's of course a channel for
delivering your product. So diversity in networks really matters. You might want to think about ways in
which you can extend your networks by looking at the sorts of
affiliations you have or can create. So, you have networks
in the opportunity for contacts through the people
who you go to school with. Or the people who you currently work with,
one of the reasons why entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs, startup firms are so interested these days in the possibility
of working in an accelerator is that it gives them a chance to build a lot of
network connections into other domains. But even without this sort of opportunity,
you can think about what community groups can I join,
what sorts of clubs can I join to get me access to different sorts of contacts in
a variety of industries and in the like. Even Bill Gates, just to use his
historical example, he connected up with funding for his efforts because his mother
was actually on the board of a not for profit with John Akers,
who was at that time the president of IBM. So those two step connections
can really be helpful for you. Now let's talk about brokerage. This is closely related to the ideas
on diversity in knowledge bases, but we're going to get at the concept
from a very different direction. A and B are our two actors now, and both of them in this new depiction have
the same number of contacts once again. So A and B are putting the same amount
of effort into maintaining their network connections. Now, let's let each of their contacts be
connected to four additional parties. Look what happens. Look what happens when we add in
four connections on each of A or B's five original contacts. Two completely different pictures here. With the same rules to make them operate. In A's situation,
the network is folded back on itself. So there aren't any
indirect connections for A, but rather the same set of people
are all communicating with each other. So they're putting all of their effort
into sharing the same information over and over again. In mathematical graph theory, the mathematicians would call
this a fully connected click. And I think that's very suggestive when we
think of a clique of people gossiping and saying the same things with each other. In contrast, B's network is very open and
sparse and so B is getting 20 indirect contacts
because each of the five original contacts are providing indirect
access to four more sources. So B is having access to far more
information and so B, the broker, is really able to create far
more knowledge recombination. So when I set it up like that,
it sounds like B's network is perfect and A's network is problematic but
there's more to the story. Research findings have let us know that
while people with B networks are better at innovating,
they come up with more innovative ideas, they tend to get promoted
faster in an organization. We also find that people who have
A type networks enjoy more long term cooperation between
the members of their group. So the idea of everyone being connected
to each other may not let as much unique information flow but allows everyone in
the group to work together effectively to get a shared set of identity
to focus on common goals, and ensure that everyone carries
their weight to accomplish it. So the story isn't just being A or
B but in some cases being some A and some B and indeed most networks
are in between the poles of A and B. What does this mean for
entrepreneurial teams? I think the findings are particularly
poignant when you think about constructing a team, and that's something we've been
talking about in previous modules, and of course, we'll continue to talk
about throughout this course. You're always thinking about
who are on your team and what sorts of networks they can
be bringing to the situation. So the best way to think about
an entrepreneurial team would be to say that the members of your key
team are an A team internally. So all your connective with each other and
sharing the information that you need to keep your goals on the same page to
keep yourselves focus and the like. But then each of the parties, the cost
of your complimentary skill sets and the like are really bringing a B
network to your organization, to your team because each of you
have different, unique, diverse sets of knowledge that you're going for
and bringing into the organization. And again, research has shown
that these sorts of teams, not just for startups but also in
a consulting organizations and the like. Teams that are A internally,
well connected and cohesive among the key team members,
but then have a wide diverse range and reach beyond the team, are the ones that
tend to be the most high performing. While we're thinking about
the idea of indirect contacts, I want to say a little
bit more about that. Because networks, as you know,
get very big and complex very quickly. As everyone is connected to many other
people, and so networks are typically much bigger than the very small and
simplified pictures I've been showing you. It's very tempting to move
beyond the two steps sort of contacts that I've been focusing on,
to much or larger kinds of network. And thinking of ways to create a chain or a set of paths and
connections to people of interest. It's very tempting to go to
your LinkedIn profile and say, well, who would I like to connect with? And this prominent venture capitalist,
for example, is a four-step connection to me, and
so I should be able to go one, two, three, four steps through these
acquaintances and make that happen. What we typically see happening
is that while there's a lot of attention in the popular press
on what they call small worlds. Or six degrees of separation, the idea that everyone can be connected to
someone through a small number of steps. It's typically very hard to activate those
kinds of paths, beyond the two step paths. So the two step is pretty easy
because you're asking someone with whom you have a relationship to
introduce you to one other person. But then to ask to introduce,
to introduce, to introduce, becomes a lot harder. So, I just want you to remember that, just
because you can draw a small world sort of path or a multi step path,
to a wide, wide, large range of people doesn't mean that you're going
to be able to make those connections. So, in order to think about how
we get those connections going in a meaningful way, that brings us to
our third characteristic, which is trust. When we think about network ties and
this context that had been made. The question is whether a contact is
what we can call stronger or weak tie. And I've illuted to this earlier when I
talked about whether your connections were quick acquaintances that you had made and
tabulated in one of your social network apps, or whether these people are true
friends or long standing relationships. Obviously in the longer standing
relationship where most trust is built up, this is the situation where you're going
to be able to ask for and receive help. And also you're going to reciprocate that if the other person is asking you for
help. And so these kind of connections where
you're friends with the person or you've worked with them for a really long
time when you have repeated interaction. Versus very infrequent or
just a new one time sort of interaction. When the relationships are multiplex and
by that I mean, whether there's more than one
way that you're connected. For example, you're related to someone and
you're working together. As one example,
you went to college with someone and you're also members of the same team for
an intramural sports league. These kinds of relationships,
they happen in multiple domains, tends to become stronger as well. When you have strong ties, that's when
you're in a situation where you're really able to activate these kinds
of network connections. So if we go back to this picture
of the ideal entrepreneurial team, what I want to do is emphasize by these
thick lines, rather than the thin lines, that these relationships need to
be solid and strong in order for the networks to really deliver the kinds
of benefits that we've been talking about. Let's summarize a few takeaways
from today's session. We use the basic principles of network
theory to provide some prescriptions for what you should be doing as a member
of an entrepreneurial team. How you can be constructing your own
personal network to help shape the flow of ideas, personnel, funding or endorsements
to your fledgling organization. We discussed how effective teams
need to be cohesive internally, A inside, and
have brokerage externally, B outside. In short,
always take the time to examine and re-examine your own personal network and
your team's overall networks. And seek to build additional
contacts strategically. Thank you.