As you've seen in prior lectures, the team is incredibly important
to making your start-up succeed. And in order to be successful as possible,
you need to think hard and work hard, to make sure you have the best key management
people involved in a company, as possible. How do you do this? The first thing you need to
do is decide who to hire. And the next thing is decide how to hire. This might seem very obvious, but
there's actually a science behind hiring, and we want to cover that
in this lecture here. So, the first thing you want to think
about is what roles you are hiring for. And they're many managerial
roles in an organization. Some roles might be filled already,
some roles might not be filled. But you should consider
growing by division. What does growing by division mean? That means that if you are overwhelmed
by your job, and you probably will be as a founder, what part of your job can
you divide and give to somebody else? For the other people in your
company who are overwhelmed, what part of their job can you divide and
give to someone else? So that's a good way to think about roles,
is by dividing up into individual tasks, when you're overwhelmed and
there's too many roles under one person. Whatever you're doing, you should
think about the danger of imprinting. What does imprinting mean? Imprinting means that the early decisions
you make about hiring in a company have long term implications for
the company's success. And so let's use an example. Let's say you hire an HR manager. Now, HR can do many roles
within your organization. HR can have a legal role. They can have recruiting role and they have a role setting
policy inside the company. So you hire an HR person early in your
company that doesn't do any legal stuff but does do recruiting and
does do internal company policy. Great, your company does really well. You eventually get to 100 employees 200
employees and your HR director leaves. Now it's time to hire new HR director. Because your first HR director didn't do
legal issues, it's almost certain that you had to hire or bring in lawyers into your
company who handled those sets of issues. Maybe now there is a new division or group within your company
that is the legal department. If that was in your HR people's
purview early on maybe, Legal would have been in HR. Now Legal is a separate
part of the company. Further, if you want to
hire a new HR person, you can no longer hire an HR
person who has a legal background because that's a separate
part of your company now. So you have to hire an HR person who has
the same skills as the HR person who left. Basically the person who left left
a hole the size of their roles inside the company. So the decisions you make
early on help set the tone for what happens in your company's future. And we actually have evidence going back
hundreds of years showing that companies often get formed by the early imprints
of what their early jobs are. So you want to think hard about that
you make sure you're hiring for the skills that you're
interested in hiring for. Now about those skills, a really important
thing to think about early on is what the roles actually are in the company, and
what the roles are actually going to do. So you want to think
about functional skills. What does the person actually do all day? Do they they need to be able to program? Do they need to do marketing writing? What managerial skills
are these people going to have? Do they need to manage other people,
be able to grow a team? And do they need industry or
domain skills? Do they need to know something about
contact lenses or Ethiopian fast food or whatever industry area you're
thinking about moving into?. Once you've figured out what their role
is, then you have to think about how you're going to source the employees
to fill out that role. And the general rule is "A"
hires attract "A" hires. What does that mean? The best people tend to get
the best people onboard. There's a lot of reasons for that. If you have an "A" hires,
your company is going to perform better. And that means that you'll be able to
attract more high-performing people. If you have "A" hires they'll have
networks of other "A" hire people that you could bring on board so
it tends to be self fulfilling. "A" hires are often less threatened
by bringing in other top people, so they'll be more likely to
get "A" hires on board. And other "A" hires
are attracted to top people. So they'll be interested in joining
companies where the best people work. So it's very important early on to
get the get the best possible people inside your company, and it becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy when you continue to get those best
people moving forward. Then how do you actually find
the people you want to hire? Well, a lot of it depends on the
specificity of the skills of your company. So what does that mean? Highly specific skills might be somebody
in your company has to do with Gamma PNA solutions. Well, there's very few in the world
that know how to use Gamma PNA and they probably all work for somebody else. Which means that if you need to hire
somebody who has really specific skills, you'll need to go to somebody who
already works at other companies. Might be the same thing with
Artificial Intelligence. Might be the same thing
with really talented chefs. On the other hand,
there are low specificity skills. Really good sales people,
good marketing people, where there are many people out
there who might have that skill set. And they're often looking for other jobs. So for highly specific skills, if you have
a very prominent job, you're looking for a C-level top management team employee, you probably might need to use headhunters
to go after those sets of people. For less prominent roles,
you will need to pick up the phone and call people at your competitors and
get them on board. For low specificity skills,
you're going to actually advertise. And if you advertise with good filters, you can actually get
very high-level people. And you can consider doing university
visits and other things for low prominent skills. So the first thing you need do is make
sure you know what your roles are, and make sure you're sourcing properly. After that, what are you looking for
in an employee? Well, the first thing you're looking for
is skills, and there's a huge difference between
the top and bottom hires. So this is actually some results
from some studies that I did, looking at the performance of
people in the video game industry. And looking at the performance of entire
teams, so C-level staff or the entire company as a whole, the performance of
middle managers and the performance of the innovators, people who come with
ideas within the game industry. What I found was 20% of the variation for
performance, that means 20% of the variation of these games that make
hundreds of millions of dollars and that 20% of that revenue variance came
from who their middle manager was. 21% came from the rest of
the company as a whole and only 7% came from who
the innovator employee was. This tells you that,
even when hiring middle managers, getting the best people
in the job matters a lot. And we already know there's
huge differences in technical employees as well. The difference between an employee in the
top 25th percentile versus the bottom 75th percentile among programmers can
be somewhere between eight and 28 times performance differences. So you need to hire,
whether they're mill managers or potentially the technology people,
that you're getting the very best employees because there are huge
productivity differences come as a result. So you're not just hiring for
early employees for their skills and for their roles, you are also hiring for
their networks. There's some evidence that suggest that
the social capital people bring to the table is at least as important as
human capital for early stage companies. That means the networks people
bring to the table matter a lot. So how can you think about the networks
people are bringing to the table? You can think about this as thinking about
four different kinds of networks we're interested in. You're interested in people who
bring networks of connections to potential future employees,
potential partner companies. You're interested in people who
have networks that extend to users and customers. You're interested in people who
have networks that extend to potential investors. And also people whose networks
might extend to suppliers and other kinds of partnership
with other companies. So you want to actually,
when you're thinking about hiring people, decide what kinds of networks and
connections they have and how good those network connections are. So do they have easy connections
to potential customers? Do they work for the company that you've actually
you want to bring on as a customer? Well, that's a really
powerful connection there. The person might have important network
connections in their inner circle. On the other hand, if they just
vaguely know a bunch of people, that network is not as useful. So you want to sit down and actually
think about the networks that people are bringing to the table,
as you do this early stage hiring. Once you do this,
how do you actually do hiring? Well, there's a whole science behind
human capital that is very deep, and we'll cover just in basics here today. So one key thing you want to
do is have a scorecard. So you have those roles that
you've determined earlier and you've figured out whether people have,
what functional roles, what managerial roles,
what skills people have. You want to actually
write those all down and have a common scorecard which
judges all those characteristics. Then you want to talk with other
interviewers and you need to have at least three to five interviews, which means that
if you're the only person in your company, you need to find some friends
to help you do interviews or hire people to help you with interviews. But, you need to have a formal approach
and agree with your interviewers about what kinds of questions
you're all going to ask. You might want to have some
basic screening in advance. So, you can do that through lunch, through phone calls with your
high quality candidates. But you want to be careful
to avoid homophily. What's homophily? Homophily is the natural principle that
we like people who are like ourselves. So we tend to be attracted to and find interesting people who share
similar backgrounds to ourselves. But if you're a business person,
you're hiring a programmer, there's a good chance the good programmer
won't share all the same skills and interests and background that you do. So you might naturally not have that
connection or fit with that person. And what you want to make sure is that
you're not overvaluing that sort of personal connection or fit because that
may only get you people who just look like you in the organization,
not get the diversity of skills and experience you actually need. You also should consider
assigning pre-work. What is pre-work?
Pre-work is stuff that people do before
they come to your interview. So there's a bunch of things
you can do for pre-work. You can ask people to do
a report on your product. You can ask people to come and observe your business and
come up with ideas on how to improve it. But regardless, you only want to do
pre-work if it's meaningful, if it teaches the person who's doing the pre-work
whether they want the job, ultimately. And also if it's respectful. So you don't want to just give people
pre-work because it'll turn them off. If it's disrespectful,
it requires too much work. But do think about pre-work if its useful. Once you're in the interview,
the best kind of questions to ask tend to be questions where you actually walk
people through their resume, and look for the characteristics that
are spelled out in your scorecard. So you don't want to ask people
what their biggest weakness is, if that's not an issue for
your score card. You want people just tell you about,
tell me about a time that you were able to do this functional management activity
that is for our primary score card. Were you were able to work
with a team under adversity. And then when they tell
you about the time, you want to ask lots
of questions about it. So how did your team
get in that situation? Did anyone else try and help you? Was anyone resentful about it? And talk through those issues and
you're looking for behaviors in that scorecard that you've
already decided on that are important. So you're digging through people's pasts. Maybe you'll ask questions
about the future. How would you handle a situation where
your team was under pressure, and had to deliver a product under time and
it wasn't ready? What would you do? But you want to ask behavior
questions that are focused on exactly the behaviors that are in your scorecard. After the interview,
you should think about using references. Now part of the problem with references
is many large companies don't actually give good references and some companies
that do give references, the person in the room will just write down references
that are potentially useful to them. So when you do those interviews, you can use the threat of reference
check to help surface interesting ideas. So as you talk to somebody, and they tell
you about what happened at the team that was operating under adversity for
example, you can ask them, so who was your boss during that time? And they might ask you
why you're asking that. And you could say I might want to
cal this person as a reference. What would they say when I call them? And that's a really good way for
them to give you a preparation for why they think this person would be a good
reference or not and really explain that. And so you can get some of the benefits
of a reference without actually having to go through the process
of reference check. Ultimately, after the interview,
everybody needs to make a go or no go decision based on the scorecard. So have you objected to discussions, based
on that scorecard that you've filled out and you're not making any
sort of hemming and hawing? People have to decide is this
someone we're going to hire or not. And ultimately,
you need to close very hard. You need to make sure that you've
gone through the process and now that you've gone through all
this effort to hire somebody, that you actually go through the process
of making sure you're hiring them by doing everything you can to give them power. Have everyone in your
company email them and tell them how excited they
are to get them on board. Negotiate with them about
stock options immediately. Ask them what kind of
office furniture they want. Whatever you need to do to get
somebody excited about the company and feel like they really should take the job,
that's what you're going to do here. Hiring is this really important. Hiring key people is even more important. You need to consider roles,
skills, and networks. For roles you need to be aware of
imprints, think about growing by division, make sure you're sourcing properly. For skills, realize the best and worst employees are very
different from each other. Use their history in those interviews
to judge who is good and who isn't. And with networks,
consider the diversity of the network, and how well people understand how deeply
those network connections work. If you think about these sets of issues, you'll be better able
to hire key managers.