Hi, I'm Ethan Mollick. I
want to talk to you about actually taking the leap to
launching your own startup. So there is something about this idea of taking
a leap that is both scary and compel I
write or jumping off into your new startup in
changing your life forever. Obviously, if you're
taking this course, it's something you're
interested in. So let me tell you
the first advice I have if you're thinking about
taking a leap which is, "Don't leap before you look." The whole world revolution in startup strategy that you're
learning about in all of the lectures here is all about the increasingly
powerful techniques, we have to do experimentation and lean startup techniques
that I do experiment and figure out whether
your startup idea is a good idea or not before you actually go and
leap off into the unknown. So my first piece of
advice for you is, make sure you've use
those techniques to actually plan your business in advance
to have done experiments, test assumptions, built MVPs
because as much as you can before you actually
end up putting your job to launch a company. Also consider your principal
affordable loss. Studies of successful
startup founders by Saras Sarasvathy at eVA, I've found that says all founders tend to think
about affordable loss. How much can they afford to spend in terms of time and money to find out if their idea
is a good one before they make
the decision to go or not? So you should know
in advance, how much effort you are willing
to put in to figure out whether your startup idea
is good or bad before you actually take the leap
into the unknown? In general, test
your ideas rigorously. The more you can
do to reduce risk, the better off you'll be. The more informative you be in deciding on whether
or not to launch. When you do launch, have more successful you're likely
to be as a result. When you're actually
going to take that leap? Think about the three categories of risk you have to worry about. So the first risk are known
issues or known knowns. So there's a bunch of things that any founder needs to think about. How I deal with the potential
cut to my income of leaving my job to launch a startup or not taking another job in return? How my partner and family feel? What are the emotional reactions going to beat his startup? What's going to happen
to my job when I go? Will people in this industry
want to hire me again? Do I want to change
the industries entirely? How does this change
my job hunt of the future? These are things
that you should be able to nail down before you launch your company or at least think about
in a deep way. So you should consider
all of those questions. You also need to consider
the known risks. Where are you going
to get funding from? You don't know the
exact to answer now. But do you have
a plan to seek out funding from different
funding sources? Are you going to apply
the things you've learned in the lectures here to
do that properly? Will your product actually work? Are you going to take
the advice of all of the other professors
talking here about, how to build
a successful product, how to prototype, how to make sure that
things are in place? When will you know
the answer to these things? Do you have the money
and time to get there? Then there's a bunch of hazards. Things that are unknown unknowns. Things that happen in life, but then you can't predict. How are you going to accommodate for these things in
your startup company? So what happens if you get sick? What happens if there's
economic downturn, or a boom, or
a technology changes? So, these are not always
easy things to plan for, but their categories you
need to keep in mind. So how do you address these? For your known issues, you should have answers already. You should have a sense already about how you're going to
deal with the income change. Have you saved up
money in a side? What happens to
your job when you go? For known risks, you should use all the techniques we
have in the course to reduce those risks. So we have classes on, how to think about product
development in a safe way? We have classes on how
to end of courses and lectures on how to think about minimizing financial risks. You should go through
those issues. For hazards, there's unknown unknowns like
the idea that someone might get sick or you
have take care of a family member. You
have to leave slack. If you're so busy
and you so worn out and you have
no financial resources left for your startup, then these unknown unknowns
might hit you in the head, and there's no
possible alternatives. So you want to make
sure that you have some cushion to rely on. Also, think about remembering
escalation of commitment. If you start telling
everyone, you're launching your startup company, you start putting
resources into it. It becomes very easy psychologically to keep
committing to a course of action. So make sure you're
clear-eyed and using things like
hypothesis testing and lean startups to think
about whether your startup's going to
fail or succeed, and make sure to be
able to walk away or pivot if you're heading
in the wrong direction. Remember, there's
nothing certain here. I can't give you even with all these classes
the guarantee of we succeed. I have some of the best
entrepreneurs in the world that come out of the classes
we teach here at Wharton. I can't tell you with certainty, but who's going to
succeed or who's going to fail just when I
see their pitches. Only later when they
started succeed or fail, do I know who's made
and who hasn't. So there's no
certainty out there. You have to be ready to deal
with that sort of risk. On the other hand,
there's good news too. Startups are wonderful. So this is actually a graph from my research with Matthew Bidwell
here at Wharton, where I surveyed
every living Wharton alumni. What you can see here
is the happiness level of Wharton alumni. That line at the top is the average happiness
level of entrepreneurs, and every other dot is
the happiness level and 95 percent confidence interval for every other
industry at Wharton. Entrepreneurs, even
when they fail or among the happiest
people at Wharton. So there is satisfaction that
comes out of doing this, there's freedom that
comes out of this. So I can't tell you personally whether
it's time to leap or not, but I can tell you that you know the things in this course to
make sure you're prepared, make sure you're handling
that there's known knowns and you know what's
going to happen. Make sure you're planning for
the unknown uncertainties, and make sure you leave
slack for hazards, and then make sure you're starting your journey
on the right foot. You know everything you need to have for taking these classes, so to try and launch this. I think that you
will be able to plan out a path that leads you
to happiness and success.