Welcome to a discussion on incubators and
accelerators which are two other funding mechanisms and support mechanisms you can use in the early stages
of your startup. So let's first talk about
what incubators are. Incubators had been around for a long time since
at least the 1950s, and they are a way of trying to get early-stage startups the support they need
in order to succeed. Usually incubators are open to some subset of individuals. So commonly universities
might have an incubator, various regions and cities
might have incubators. But the idea would be to
have some sort of space that individuals can come to and that can provide them
with support and help. So that might be something like equivalent of a
publicly available. We work kind of office setting. But it's often some set
of real estate, resources, lectures,
mentoring help. They will help
startups get through the very early stage
of a company, usually it's an individual level, sometimes small teams and usually it's a rolling and entry and exit kind of situation. So you apply or join
for a little while and you leave once
you're too big for the incubator or reached
the next stage of your company. Accelerators though they
share the same common focused on early stage startups
as incubators, have a very different goal. They're actually money-making
ventures and they grew out of something
that you've heard about in other lectures
of the class which is, the fact that as
start-ups had dropped in cost and become cheaper
and cheaper to launch. It's become harder and harder
for large investors to deploy money into
a startup before it's been successful and to get the kind of returns
that they wanted to. So someone named Paul Graham,
startup investor, had the idea that why
don't we instead of investing companies after they've already achieved some success, why don't we invest in lots
of companies very early on before they even got
their idea fully worked out, and that way we can get many small investments
for large pieces of these companies and that was Y Combinator the
first accelerator. So the way an
accelerator works is that in return for
joining the accelerator, you give up a small stake of your company in return for
some sort of investments. So that investments usually a
mix of money and resources, can be some legal help, some marketing help at a discount also space at the
accelerator program. Usually accelerators
are competitive to enter so top accelerators like Y Combinator or Techstars have a one or two percent
acceptance rate. So as opposed to incubators
which are open to everybody within a narrow community with
some sort of maybe filter, accelerators are highly
competitive and usually open to everybody. There are
also class-based. So you apply to a class
of an accelerator. So the Summer Program in
accelerator X and you join altogether with maybe 20 other companies
at that same time, or five or 10 depending on
the size of the accelerator, and usually it's a three or four-month program at
the end of which you do some sort of public pitch
often to investors. In some cases you'll
get investment right during that presentation. So the idea of an accelerator is it's a very intense,
short-term program, it's really designed to
get you the next stage of funding and it moves you through this process with a bunch of other people in the same way and it's competitive to enter. So like almost all other forms
of fundraising, there's a very strong status hierarchy in the world
of accelerators. So the top accelerators
and you can see this list of the best
accelerators the market like AngelPad and Y Combinator have their pick of
which startups they want to have joined them and the lesser high-status
startups accelerators like say 500 Startups or
the local regional accelerators end up
getting the people that Y Combinator do
not necessarily select. So this is a very
high status ranking, I strongly recommend looking at the accelerator rankings to see accelerator rankings
that come out of [inaudible] work
at Rice University and as a way of figuring out which accelerators might
be the right ones to join. So there is some research on the types of accelerators
and how they work. Techstars and Y Combinator
have been the most successful. So Air BnB, Reddit came
out of Y Combinator. The Daily Burn, Foodzie
came out of Techstars and we actually have some
evidence that accelerators do exactly what their name
would suggest. So Sheryl Winston-Smith has a really interesting set
of research where she says that people
who go through accelerators are
actually accelerated. They are more likely to fail
or they're more likely to succeed than people who
don't go through them. So there will get
an answer right away in terms of whether startups
going to succeed or not. The founders that do
succeed get funding faster than people who don't
go through the accelerators. Even if you're a startup fails, once you've gone
through an accelerator, you're highly connected
to this sort of hi-tech environment and it's easier for you to
get jobs afterwards. So the general lesson here is that if you
get into Y Combinator, you really should go there and other accelerators
though it's less clear. So the vast majority of
accelerator seem to fail, a lot of regions and
governments have setup accelerators and it's not always clear that those work. So the high-status
one's work really well, the low status ones you
should only consider joining if it has some value for you. So if they're giving
you some money that's useful access to
resources that are useful but you shouldn't
expect a low-status accelerator to make
the same kind of change in your business that a high-status
accelerator would do. So both accelerators and incubators will help you get your business off the ground. Incubators are much
more of a providing passive resources such as space. Sometimes some mentoring,
additional help. Accelerators are about
making an investment in your company in
return for a piece of equity in your company
and usually joining some high-powered class in
a high-stress environment where you'll have to go to the accelerator and
spend time there. If you can join
a high-status accelerator, you should probably do so. A lower status
accelerator you need to consider whether or not it
meets your goals or not. Incubators you should
use if the resources are helpful for you and
your startup company.