So, last time we discussed the fact
that 65% of the reason why VC backed companies fail has to do
with senior management team issues. And probably even higher number
of why founding teams fail at the very early stages has to
do with senior management issues. So, I want to spend a few minutes talking
to you about some of the critical issues you need to think about
when founding your company. And the nice thing is, unlike a lot
of other academic discussions, we actually have some answers to
these with numbers to back them up. So, I want to address three
really critical questions. First, should you found your company alone
or should you found it as part of a group? Second, should you choose to work with
people who are similar from you or people who are different? And then finally, what difference does
this sort of personal value stuff actually matter when you're
launching a startup company? So, these are critical things to think
about as you assemble your team and I've got some answers for you. So the first question is,
should you found alone or in a group? And the answer is a group. So, we actually have some numbers on this. Co founders succeed more and generally
happier because they interact better. And, we actually have, as you can see on
this chart, some indications from some of the work by which is backed
up by other research work for other teams remaining and
the valuation of the company. And the companies that have three founding
team members left at the time when they raise venture capital or angel money, are
the ones that have the highest valuation. So, just from a numeric perspective,
that makes sense. And from a team dynamic perspective, three is a fairly good number because it
allows you to have team breaking team split votes and
still have clear decisions, so two to one. And it also lets you divide up roles
fairly well into sort of a technical side, an operational side, a sales side. So, three founding team members
is often ideal, but again, this is one way of handling things. There's certainly been plenty
of successful companies with two founding team members, and plenty
of successful alone founded companies. As you start to increase
the founding team size, you also start to have
a drop off in valuation, but there generally is advantage in
being part of multiple team members. Again, one of the most common
questions I get asked from people after their startup is running is,
gosh, I need a co-founding team member. Will you help me find one? And that's often very
hard to do because so much water's already passed
under the bridge that it's hard to bring someone else on who was not
one of the founding team initially. So, think through that issue and
think about how you can build the team and not just alone individual. So, a second critical question
is who you should found with. And ultimately this choice is about not
just whether you're founding with friends and family or
whether you're founding with strangers. But also, whether or not the team
of people that you're founding with are similar or different from each other. So, whether it's a diverse team or
homogeneous team. And when I talk about diversity, I don't
necessarily mean ethnic, racial, or gender diversity. In fact, our research pretty much shows, at least on the gender diversity
side where there's been more studies that having a diverse team is associated
with higher rates of success. So having gender diversity, having ethnic
diversity is generally a good thing. I'm talking about
diversity of backgrounds. So, do you want everyone to come from
the same sorts of job experience, have the same sorts of career backgrounds, come from the same company,
come from the same school. So, would you like a team of all MBAs who
have all gone to a place like Wharton, who have all worked in investment banking,
for example. Or would you like a diverse team? A group where you have somebody who might
have been an investment banker who got an MBA from Wharton, but
you also might have a lawyer, and you might have an artist, and
you might have a self taught salesperson. So, that's diversity versus
homogeneity versus similarity. And the advantages and disadvantages
of each team depends on your strategy. So, a homogeneous team, a team where
everyone has very similar backgrounds, has some advantages over
more diverse teams. The main advantage is that everyone
already speaks the same language. So, you all are from the same set of
cultures, same set of backgrounds, used to dealing with
the same sets of problems. That means that when you run a meeting, everyone already understands how
that meeting is going to operate and you can work fairly seamlessly
to talk with each other. It means that if you use the same
sort of language, it means that you use the same sort of way of talking about
customers or understanding the world, and that makes that team operate
more efficiently and quickly. And also makes it so,
that it's easier to operate, and you're less likely to
fall apart as a team. So, those kind of homogeneous teams
are really good at operating quickly and exploiting an opportunity. So the exploitative strategy, one where
you are copying other existing ideas in the market and
trying to operate more quickly. You're not trying to reinvent the wheel. So, you're not trying to be the first fast
casual Mexican chain, but you're trying to launch your own fast casual
Mexican restaurant chain in your town. Having a team of people who are very
similar with backgrounds in restaurant operations would be an advantage. But, the downside of this similarity is
that you're much less innovative than diverse teams. So, a diverse team has more
ways of solving problems and innovation comes from
recombination of ideas. So, a diverse team when
they encounter a problem, will be able to reach out to
many different groups of people. Many different realms of experience and
they're going to innovate more. So, homogeneous teams
hold together better, but they are less likely to innovate. On the other hand,
the diverse team is much slower to act, because people speak different languages,
they come from different backgrounds, sometimes literally, but
often just the way a lawyer understands the world is very different than
an artist understands the world. And that can cause a lot of issues,
it can also cause frictions and can cause teams to dissolve. On the other hand,
these teams are much better at innovating. And those innovations
actually have a real impact. So, for each diverse set of background
experiences on our founding team, a research has found that you actually
get about a 7 to 12% increase in the valuation of your company. If you're an innovative company
trying to raise venture capital. So, there's a real financial impact
in having diversity involved because it makes you more innovative,
but it does make you slower. So, if you're trying to be exploited,
you're trying to be a follower and act quickly in an industry,
a diverse team can actually slow you down. But, if you're trying to
do something innovative or new, diversity is your friend and
will help you substantially. So, the final question I get
asked is about this values stuff. So, values always seems
kind of touchy feely. The question is what role does
this have in hard-nosed business? And the answer is a lot. Aside from the fact that issues of
values often can divide team members and ultimately cause them to split apart. So if somebody values money, someone else values fairness,
that can be a very problematic set up. But values have an even more direct
effect, which is when you start a startup, there's often two different goals
that you're going to achieve. Everyone wants to try and get both of
these, but that's very hard to do. So, one goal is what
we call the king goal. And a king is somebody who
wants to build a company for their own independence and control. They want to be in charge
of their own destiny. They want to be able to
shape an organization. They want to be able to solve a problem
they think is important in the world. These people are kings. The other reason you might want to start
a company is because you want to make as much money as possible. And unsurprisingly,
we call these people rich. So, this is the tension between
people whose goal is independence and that they want to maintain control,
and people who want to make money. Why is that attention? Because over time,
what ends up happening is people who want to be king end up having to make
decisions to maximize their control. And that often means that they can't bring
on as many senior employees who have experience, because those people
also want to have control. So, you end up hiring more junior people
who don't have as much experience. It means that it's harder to raise
capital because venture capitalists and angel investors often want to take
a controlling interest in companies or at least have some control
over the organization. Kings tend to avoid that, so
they often would give up financing, so they could maintain control
over the organization. So, when they make a set of choices they
consistently maximize their degree of control that often slows down
their ability to grow and make as much money as possible. On the other hand if you want to follow
that rich route and you want to maximize return, that means that you're going to
bring on venture capital into investors or other forms of equity financing that will
loosen you're control in the company. It means you want to bring
in other senior advisors and senior level employees who may take
equity stakes to your organization and maintains some control and
that eliminates your control as well. So, these sets of choices that you're
making often push you over time to either go with a rich approach or
a king approach. There are a few select founders, many of
the most successful that you've heard of, whether that's a Steve Jobs or
Bill Gates, or the founders of Google,
who've managed to be both rich and king. So, they've managed to maintain
control of their organization and make a lot of money, and
maintain a lot of equity stake as well. So, Mark Zuckerberg being one example. The interesting thing for us, in our
research on this is that statistically those people are extremely rare. And generally it's very hard to aim for
that. So, if your goal is to be
the next Mark Zuckerberg that is generally not the pattern
that startups follow. So, looking for just those outliers or
trying to be Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg and have it all. Be both king and rich tends to be
a path for failure for most startups. And actually those rare
exceptions that end up being the most successful startups in history. So, you have to decide whether you're
trying to aim to be an outlier and try to maintain both control and get rich
doing this or whether you're willing to sort of follow the mass of the market
where this trade off is a very real one. And this trade off is not
theoretical because, so this is not a theoretical concern. This has real implications for
you as a founder. If you look at the chart below, it's actually graphing rich versus
king tendencies in start ups. If you look all the way on the left
side of the graph, you're going to see those start ups that gave up board
control and CEO control for the founders. So, these are people who went
all the way on the rich side, they gave up all the control over
the organization they could. The next step up are people who kept the
CEO position but gave up board control. Then you have founders who keep control
of the board which is a little bit more powerful than just the CEO role. And then finally you have people who
really maintain that king level position, they kept the CEO and
board control over the organization. The vertical axis of the graph tells
you the valuation of the company held by the founders in
millions of dollars. And you'll see a really interesting trend. The people who gave up the most control, who went the rich path that we talked
about are the ones who have the highest valuation even though they gave up those
controls in the hands of the founders. In fact, the people who chose all the way
to go down in this angle of being a rich organization, had give up as
much control as possible. Actually helped twice as much value of
the company's stock as the founders than those who kept as much control as
possible and went down this king angle. So, that choice about you want to maintain
control or whether you want to maintain as much wealth as possible as
a real one for most organizations. So, you need to think about what is your
personal goal, what makes you happy. Do you want to be a king? Does it matter that you're in control? Is that why you're
starting the organization? Is that independence? Or is it because you want to
make as much money as you can? And that choice is often
a very difficult one. And there's actually some evidence that
there's cultural aspects of this as well. So, this is results of a OECD survey of entrepreneurs asking why they
wanted to start companies. And the dark green are people who
started companies because they wanted to increase their income. And the light green are people who started
companies because they wanted their own independence. And what you'll see in France
everyone wants to be king. So, people start companies not to
make as much money as possible, but because they want control
over their own destiny. And on the other side we have Belgium,
where most people seem to start companies because they want to
make as much money as possible and they don't care of they may control. United States is somewhere in the middle. So, the idea here is that this is
a individual feeling that you have, and you need to make a choice because
the world will force you to think about whether or
not you want to be rich versus or king. And you also need to think
about your co founders. What are their real goals? Is it to make as much money as possible? Is it to maintain control
over their own destiny? And if you have a conflict with them,
and that could be a problem. And so, do you need to to talk it
out frequently and work through. Because the rich versus
king divide is a real one. So, what are the answers to the questions? So, should you found alone or in a group? The answer is usually a group. Both for your own sanity sake and because
that's seems basically to do better. Should you choose to work with
people who are similar from you or people who are different from you? The answer is if you want to innovate
a different diverse group is advantageous. If you want to execute quickly, then you might want to work with
a more similar group of individuals. And again, this is about backgrounds. This is not about other kinds of
diversity such as ethnic or racial or national origin or
gender, where the results are much more unambiguously
that diversity is advantageous. And then, how do values end up mattering? Well, your own goals and values matter a lot because that's what
you're trying to maximize as a startup. So, thinking about how your team
matches in that dimension is important. And you also need to think about
this rich versus king decision, that choice between are you maximizing
control or maximizing income? And so, these are critical
questions you need to be able to answer about your founding team. If you don't have answers
about the number of people and why you've chosen that,
about the diversity of the team. And if you're not thinking
consciously about values and the rich versus king decision, you
are likely to run into trouble later on.