Hi, everyone.
David Hsu. Got me a session on
Intellectual Property and my goal for this session is to give you an overview of
the various forms of Intellectual Property that might be important to you
as a startup entrepreneur. Now, why is IP important for
entrepreneurs in the first place? Well, the traditional justification for granting some rights is to really
give incentives for innovations. Let me give you two quick examples. One example is for you to incentivize you
as the entrepreneur to invest your time, effort, money in innovating, we want to allow you the time
to recoup that investment. And in exchange for you, as we'll talk about in patents to
disclose the information in some detail. We, as the government will give you some
monopoly patent protection over your idea to use for a certain amount of time
could be particularly important in the context of, for example,
the pharmaceutical industry. Another form of intellectual property
that we'll talk about is the notion of copyright. That is the ability to control
the distribution of a creative work. Think about how this could be
quite important in the digital age where it's very costless
in some sense of copying, making another copy of the song or
of the computer program. And so to incentivize you as
the originator of a creative song or computer program,
w e want to give you some protection so that you feel invested in
really making that innovation. Now, what's important is then
to realize is that intellectual property is akin to real property. Just like a piece of property,
a house that you own. In that, you can sell that property just
like you can sell the rights to a patent. You could lease it out or license intellectual property much
like you would with a real house. You would put your house on the market for
a renter to come and occupy, but you would still retain ownership or
any other type of analogy with real property and the provision for
intellectual property is quite old. So written write there
in the US Constitution, Article I in 1790 or 1787,
as a prevision that allows for this incentive to really
incentivize authors and inventors to disclose what they've
been doing in exchange for protection. Now, what are the various forms of
intellectual property we'll discuss? Really, three or four different types. The first is patent protection. It really allows inventors to exclude
others or try to exclude others from using a protected property for
a given duration of time. After which then,
reversed to the public domain. An example here would be,
the cotton gin or the light bulb. These were method
standards of patentability, which we'll shortly talk about, but
after the conclusion of that patent protection had entered
into the public domain. The second form of intellectual
property is copyright. It allows authors to
control the duplication or distribution of their creative work. Think about musical lyrics, photography. This is really, the creative expression
that we want to give some protection for. A third type is trade secrecy. Here, it allows firms to try to
safeguard what they regard as their commercially valuable information. So, that's not generally
available to everybody. Examples of this would be business plans,
recipes, methods, techniques, processes, patterns that really give a firm
the ability to out compete others. An example here would be
Kentucky Fried Chicken, the secret sauce is not protected by
any other means, but trade secrecy and we'll talk about that in
little bit more detail. Finally, there could be speed. If you know what I knew 18 months ago,
it may not be all that important, because the commercially relevant information
could be moving at quite a brisk pace. And so we'll give an example of that in
a context of the semiconductor industry in a few minutes. Patent protection, it's the right to
exclude others In the United States for a period of twenty years from
the time that you file a patent. In the traditional justification
from the government standpoint is to really give an incentive to
disclose and give a period of time for you, as the innovator to recoup
your investments in the time and efforts that you put in to
coming up with the invention. And so as a society,
we're not literally recreating the wheel, instead we are standing on the shoulders
of giants as we progress in society and that will have cumulative progress. In the United States,
it's the first to file. That's true for most of the world. That's why there's three standards for
patentability. First, it has to be non obvious to an
ordinary person who's schooled in the art. Secondly, it has to be never relative
to what's been patented before. It has to be as well useful. Now to meet these three standards, what's explicitly excluded is
anything that's naturally occurring. Any laws of thermodynamics,
laws of gravity, anything that is naturally occurring
phenomenon or abstract ideas. Those are not subject
to patent protection. However, if you as the inventor innovator
have genetically modified something? Come up with a new variety of apple or
rose or sheep, that's not naturally occurring? That can be subject to patent protection. Now the inventor in a patent
application has to make specific claims as to what they've done,
that's new and novel and that helps demarcate where the scope or
the space of the invention should and these standards also apply for
business methods. A new way of conducting business. Some of you will be familiar
with Amazon One Click patent. It's a new way of conducting business and is true of other ways of conducting
business, maybe optimization or analytics that is a new algorithm,
that's not naturally occurring. Patents have been quickly moving
in terms of its pace over time. What you're seeing in this diagram
is the acceleration over time at which we are granting in the United
States the next millionth patent. The first patent was granted in 1790. It took actually 121 years to
get to the millionth patent. That time has shrunken
considerably as you go from say, the 8th to 9th million patent and that
likely reflects a range of explanations. Now, what explains that acceleration
over time as to why we're being able to meet these milestones faster and faster? One hypothesis can simply be that we are
as a society being much more inventive. In alternative hypothesis would be
that the utility or use of patents for whether it be for offensive means,
defensive means or as bargaining chips has accelerated
over time and this explanation or set of explanations is becoming quite
importance among academic circles. To get illustrate one concrete example
of this, it's particularly domain for startup innovators is that pens not only
allow US, the innovator to try to exclude or exclude others from copying or
entering into a proprietary domain. It can also be used as signal,
resource providers like venture capitalist that you have a real
source of differentiation above and beyond what's actually patented
in your patent grants that could be quite meaningful in
explaining the winning horse, that could be quite appealing for
venture capital investors. There's some debate, I won't dwell on this
particular set of concepts too much as to whether intellectual property protection
is good or bad for innovation. On the one hand, we're all very
familiar with these patent trolls or nonpracticing entities that have been
derided in the popular press were actually not being productive from
the standpoint of commercializing or bringing products to market. This has been the subject
of some legislation. President Obama, for example, has
targeting these non-practicing entities. On the other hand, there's been certain instances in which
probably these innovations have been popularized precisely because they've not
been the subject of intellectual property. Two examples here,
the use of a particular financial option pricing formula known as
the Black-Scholes formula, that was not the subject of
international property protection. Rather the professors Black and Scholes disclosed their innovation
in the context of academic article, and maybe that's the reason why it's so
popular among Wall Street traders, and other financial individuals, and
actors is because it was put there. If they decide to receive intellectual
property protection maybe it wouldn't have been as popular. And same thing, the quote there mentions
the case of a very interesting game, Sudoku, which was popularized,
perhaps precisely, because it didn't seek patent protection. A second form of intellectual property
protection is in the form of trade secrets. Trade secrets allow individuals and firms to really protect information,
patterns, programs, techniques or processes that can give
them a leg up compared to outsiders. Now, there some clear differences of
trade secretes as compared to patents. First, it's adjudicated at the state
level rather than the federal level, which is true for patents. Secondly, trade secrets so long as they
can be kept secret last indefinitely and that's a stark contrast as compared to
patents that we talked about before. Now, what's important is that you as
the holder of a trade secret have to take reasonable precaution to
safeguard those secrets. What's not subject to protection
is information that's garnered through independent discovery,
worked out by a competitor through by backward engineering or
is you might of accidentally disclosed. So long as information isn't
illegally obtained by competitor, you're able to invoke some
trade secrecy law to help try to protect your trade secrets. Now, let me cover two specific
contractual provisions that are important in
enabling this protection. The first is a non-disclosure agreement. If there is a particular
piece of information that you are trying to protect as an innovator, you can before disclosing
that information to someone, draft a non-disclosure agreement
that is a contractual covenant that protects that bit of
information from being disclosed. A second form of intellectual property
protection that falls under trade secrecy is a notion of a covenant not to compete. That precludes or helps to preclude
an individual who is previously worked for you as their employer from going out and
working now for a competitor. In which case, that former employee may
disclose that information to the employee. And so what a covenant not to complete or
not complete clause does is it, essentially prohibits that employee from
going out immediately from competing and being hired by competitor firm for
a certain duration of time. Finally, I want to quickly discuss
this notion of speed as a example of how formal protection may not be
that relevant if you're operating in a very competitive context and
the example I wanted to discuss with you is the case of Intel,
in the case of different chip families. Here, you see a table that lists
the different chip families ranging from the generation 386 all the way up
to the various versions of Pentium. And what I've highlighted here is the
lifespan of the particular chip family, as well as the price discount that holds
for that given chip family ranging from the beginning of the life of the chip
family to the end of the chip family. Take, for example, the Pentium III. This is a chip that had a shelf life
of about a year and a half, 18 months. And over those 18 months,
you can see that Intel was only able to charge a dollar at
the beginning of that time period, but only $0.9 on the dollar at
the very end of the period. So imagine that if you're operating
in that type of landscape in which knowledge really becomes
obsolete very quickly, you're going to be less interested
in going through the formal channel, perhaps of the patenting process or
the trade secrecy process, because that knowledge becomes obsolete so
quickly. To recap this session on
intellectual property, we've covered the different forms of
intellectual properties and some of the institutional arrangements that could
lead you as the startup entrepreneur to favor one type of intellectual
property protection or another. Thank you.