Accountants and lawyers and
especially lawyers are often some of the first professional services that
you work with a start up company. And people try and avoid them and
they avoid them for good reason. No offense to lawyers, but
it's not usually considered the most fun sets of interactions you
have are the legal ones. And more importantly on the legal
side it's often very expensive. Lawyers charge by the hour and
often charge quite a bit, when your start up is most cash
strapped or at it's earlier stages. So, a lot of people will go ahead and
form their companies using online sites to do so and handle all their founding
agreements using form agreements. And that's not necessarily a bad idea, but there is danger in doing this which is
that the choices that you're making early on in founding agreements will
have a big impact later on how you have to recognize taxes and
how you have to recognize revenue. And even more importantly, the way that
you can receive funding and the way that venture capitalists and initial
investors might consider your company. So, you want to avoid
getting into trouble and it's often advantageous to actually speak
to a lawyer early on in your organization. Now, that doesn't mean that you have to
use them to do all the company formation material, but for fast growth startups,
you can often find lawyers who are interested in working
with you on price early on, deferring part of the amount of
money that you'll be owed or doing some other deal that will help
you defray some of the early on costs, and those early conversations can
save you a lot of work later on. What's really important is not just
to use your friend or your cousin, or the lawyer that you use for your personal
matters because you really want to make sure that whoever you're working with
has experience working with startups and ideally experiences within your industry. When specifically considering lawyers,
you need to think about a lawyer who's done things many times before and
knows the context. So, there are a lot of complex legal
issues around startups, and some of those issues are easily apparent to any lawyer
and some of them are very subtle. And experience to why one solution
might work in one case or another. So specifically, you're interested in
worrying about things like company formation, what kind of
company should we be? Should we be an LLC or C corp? And there's a lot of issues around those,
being able to make revenue. What states are making money in? Thinking about those issues is important. Founders agreement which we've discussed
in other lectures here about how to set up a founding room in your company and
how to deal with those sets of concerns. Intellectual property. Certainly if you need to file patents you
would need to worry about lawyers but even things like non-disclosure
agreements can be important to run through by a lawyer first. Issues about hiring and having hiring
agreements and especially firing people. And also working with founders. So there will be a negotiation
associated with raising capital and you'll need a lawyer to
look over the terms. So these are all things that
require having a preexisting relationship with a lawyer. Even if you don't use them for
every one of these points, it could help you to have
that relationship early on so you have someone to go to when
the situation gets critical. And you also want to think about a
critical issue with lawyers is do you want them to act as advisors? So some lawyers have startup experience
that can help act as advisors, help make introductions for
you that are useful. Others are just about business. You might want to think about the
effectiveness of these various approaches and reach a personal decision about
which kind of lawyer you want to do. On the accountant side,
accountants are not usually as critical in the very early days of your company,
especially before you make revenue, and you could often get a good idea of
an accountant by talking to lawyers or going through an entrepreneurial network. You want to start thinking about getting
an account for real, when your book even gets complicated, when it starts to take
up too much of your valuable time or you start to have substantial revenue that you
need to deal with or complex employees. You may want to work with an accountant
much earlier in the process if you think your tax issues are going
to be complicated. You're worried about
the company structure and how that's going to affect
willingness to invest. Or if you don't feel comfortable
with financials at all, an accountant is a good way
to outsource the material. At the same time, neither lawyers nor accountants will solve your problems for
you. You need to ultimately be responsible for
your own company. Need to understand how your legal
issues affect your company's actual operation, so you can't outsource
all your functions to these people. You still need to maintain control
over your own organization. You'll know it best. You'll know these issues best, but they can act as critical
advisors at important points. How do you actually go about
the details of getting a lawyer or an accountant on board? First of all, ask your other advisors. Other people you've worked with. Are there entrepreneurs in
the network you're associated with who might recommend somebody to you. You might also want to talk
to more than one firm. When I was running my startup, I picked the lawyer mostly based on
the really great coffee machine they have rather than actually interviewing
a number of different law firms. Turned out to be,
not necessarily a mistake, but I probably should have
talk to more individuals. So go and have conversations with
multiple law firms that first counsels or conversations are usually free. You could also get some useful information
from them about things that they think you're starting to presume right or wrong. So that's a useful thing to do anyway. And then make sure you're
comfortable with people. Don't feel talk down to. There's no reason that a good lawyer
should make you feel like you don't know what you're talking about, so make sure
that you're having a conversation that you understand what somebody is saying. And finally make sure whether
you work with a lawyer or an accountant,
that they're not learning on your dime. So that the work that they're doing is
based on work they've done before and they're not trying to learn about startups
for the first time or industry for the first time as a result
of working with you. So they could be critical players
in the team for your company. But they're not necessarily somebody
who is going to be the key factor, who's going to take you to the future. So talk to them early on. Make sure you know a lawyer and
an accountant can do for you. And be strategic about when you decide to
start using them in your organization.