We've had a number of lectures that talk
about what to do in a pitch or an elevator pitch or how to present to
venture capitalists. But I wanted to
take some time here to talk to you about
The Art of the Pitch, about some of the science
and art behind what makes a pitch good and some of the science
behind persuasion. So I want to talk about
three different techniques that successful founders use in order to achieve success
with their pitches. Let's start with the first
of those, and I want to give you an example
to work through here. This is the Terrafugia TF-X, a actual design for
a flying car by the company Terrafugia
that was actually bought by Volvo very recently. But this is still under design flying,
convertible jet car. So let's use this as our
example to talk about pitching. One thing to think about as you do a pitch
is that you have a tension between being a visionary and being a
pragmatist. What does that mean? Well, visionaries are
typical entrepreneurs who are changing the world. Visionaries are the ones who have some radical new idea that doesn't look like
anything else out there. Why do we want our
founders to be visionary? Well, visionary founders have
ideas that nobody else has. So that means there's
less competition out there. Visionary founders also have ideas that are really exciting. So their position
positively relate to all those boring
companies out there you might not want to invest in. People like to see
visionary founders because they seem distinctive. They stick out from
other people out there. So visionaries have
all these advantages over other kinds of companies. They're seem to be doing
something new and exciting. So you could be
visionary anything. You can have
a visionary dry cleaning shop, a visionary app, a visionary approach to
local food delivery. If that's visionary, you
seem really exciting, you seem very different
than other things that are out there in the market. On the other hand, there's such a thing as
seeming too visionary, and entrepreneurs also need to be pragmatic to
the outside world. That means they need
to make it sound like there business
is pretty normal. It could be easily understood
if we put it into place. So that means that
the business seems legitimate, it seems understandable, and it seems plausible that this
can actually get done. Flying car ideas are very
visionary in most cases. It seems very crazy ever flying a car but that's exciting. That means that there's
less competition out there. It means that people are interested in this idea
and want to invest in it. On the other hand,
they might worry that the idea isn't
pragmatic enough. Either it can't be done, it can't be accomplished,
it's not plausible. So as a flying car entrepreneur, you might want to
think about ways of making your ideas
seem more pragmatic. On the other hand, if you're
running a dry cleaning shop and you're trying
to get investment, you might want to point
out all the ways that your dry cleaning shop
is visionary or changes the game from
other sets of people. So if you describe
Uber merely as a way of making sure that you could easily summon cabs
that you needed, that would seem very, very pragmatic and
not very exciting. So if you're talking about
it as a way of transforming the way people get to work,
that seems visionary. So the challenge for
entrepreneurs is to balance this visionary
and pragmatic piece. I'm giving you
three tools to do that. So the tools you can use are analogy, classification,
and authority. Let's go through each of those. So from an analogy perspective, you can make a connection
to other kinds of businesses to make your ideas seem more visionary,
and more pragmatic. So let's take the example
of the flying car. If we wanted to make that
seem more visionary, we could say we will do
the personal transportation, personal planes, what
Apple did to phones. That's giving us the analogy to Apple making our products
seem more visionary, more out there, more related
to radical innovation. On the other hand,
we might worry that our flying car seems
too visionary. So let's make it
sound more pragmatic. As is the introduction of
a serious parachute which is a whole plane parachute that's currently deployed in the world, we expect rapid adoption. So now we're making an analogy to something that's already
out there in the world of airplanes and making our ideas seem more pragmatic, more normal. This is something
we see all the time in real startups too. On the left, you
could see an example of visionary positioning. These are the original slides from LinkedIn when
they were launching their startup and they talk
about the difference between Internet 1.0 and Internet 2.0. That you originally
had classified ads, the Internet allowed you
to do things like eBay. You originally had
things like Citibank in payment and the Internet allows you to do
things like PayPal. Similar to how eBay changed classified ads or
PayPal changed payments, so LinkedIn is going to change resumes and getting and
finding out about jobs. So that's the idea of making
ourselves through analogy to eBay and to PayPal making
it seem more visionary. On the other hand, you might have a product
that seems very visionary, you want to make it
seem more pragmatic. On the right, you
could see an example of a startup that was creating medical health records
for dogs and cats, and this might seem
very visionary. So instead, they
make an analogy to very pragmatic idea which is medical health records that are already being used for humans. So by analogy, we can
make our ideas seem more radical by creating
analogies to radical ideas, more visionary ideas,
or more pragmatic by creating analogies to
more pragmatic ideas. A second strategy that you
can use is classification. So again, let's think
about classifying our idea either with other visionary ideas
or the pragmatic ideas. There's a lot of
research that shows that people think in categories. In fact, we know that from work by Ezra Zuckerman
and others, that when a publicly
traded company doesn't fit easily
into a category, it actually trades
at a lower price because people don't
know where to put it. So we can use the natural
human urge to categorize to make our ideas seem more
visionary or more pragmatic. So for our flying car, we can say that our car is categorized with
other visionary ideas, with personal
transportation company, not an airplane company. Why might we want to be
visionary in that way? Well, airplanes are expensive. They take a long time
to come to market. Very few people can afford them. If we categorize ourselves as a personal
transportation company, then maybe we seem
like we get away from the terrible economics of this space in some exciting way. We can also seem more pragmatic. We could say that our approach
takes common technologies among military aircraft and applies them in
civilian aircrafts. Now we're classifying
ourselves in the military to
civilian transfer, a well-understood category
in the airplane industry, and we seem like
a more pragmatic approach. Again, this isn't just
about flying cars. On the left, you could see one of my favorite examples
of classifying yourself as visionary. This is the stock price for
Kodak, the picture company. In the middle of 2017, Kodak decided that
they were suddenly a bitcoin company,
a cryptocurrency company. What you see is what happens
to their stock price after they decided they were
a cryptocurrency company. It shot up and later
dropped back down. But it's crazy that
all this company had to do is
recategorize itself as a cryptocurrency company and suddenly their stock was
trading at a higher price. That's the example using classification to
seem more visionary. You could also use classification
to seem more pragmatic. On the right, you
could see a Cannabis, a marijuana startup. What they wanted to do
with their startup, the website that was selling
their cannabis products, was they didn't want to
make it look drug-related. They wanted to make
it look like Amazon. So they're classifying, mentally, this product is looking more like conventional e-commerce
companies and less like a drug startup company. So you can use classification to seem even more visionary like Kodak did or more pragmatic like this cannabis company did. A final strategy you
can use is authority. Authority is simply
taking in the idea of quotes or other examples from the outside world and using that to categorize yourself properly. So if we want to seem visionary, we can say Richard Branson, the famous entrepreneur and founder of Virgin Airlines says, "This is the most daring
and exciting vision for the future of aviation
I have ever seen". So that makes it
seem more visionary. We have an outside
authority telling us that this is
a visionary product. Or we can have Richard
Branson say something, makes us seem more pragmatic. Richard Branson says, "This
is a problem that clearly represents the next
big step in aviation". Suddenly that seems more
pragmatic, more normal. Again, it doesn't just have
to be about flying cars. On the left, you can see this great quote from Steve Jobs, "This product will be
as big as the PC." "Maybe bigger than the
Internet," said John Doerr, one of the original
venture capitalists who invested in Netscape. Anyone guess what
this product is? I'll give you a second. So this product that
was bigger than a PC, that was bigger than
the Internet was the Segway. So this two-wheeler scooter, basically a go-kart missing
its last two wheels, suddenly seems like
the most exciting thing in the universe and the President of the United
States at the time actually wrote on one because of these quotes from authority that made it seem more
visionary than it was. You can make an idea
seem pragmatics. So here's an example of
rapper DJ Jazzy Jeff endorsing a product and saying that this is just
like going to the gym, making a connection to a regular easy-to-use
kind of product. So you can use
these arguments, analogy, classification and the authority, to make yourself seem more
visionary and more pragmatic. Successful entrepreneurs
think about balancing what parts of
their business are visionary and what parts are
pragmatic and use these tools to set themselves
in the right direction. So that's one set of scientific findings you can use to help make
your pitches better. Another example for
the pitching research is trying to decide
whether you want to be aimed for something that's more passionate or preparedness. Preparedness is about
pitches that have substance, thought and flow, that are logical and laid
out very clearly. Well a passionate pitch
is one that's energetic, that's in exciting, that's
highly interactive. So some people might
aim more for having this sort of
substance-based a pitch. Others might end up going for
passion over preparedness. It's often hard for
people who aren't good at doing passionate
speaking to do passion. I have good news
for them which is that our evidence is that professional investors don't seem to care very much about passion. We have experiments
where people do high-passion and
low-passion pitches in front of venture capitalists. It doesn't seem to
matter to venture capitalists how
passionate you are. All they care about
is preparedness. On the other hand,
amateur investors and angel investors
seem to care a lot more about passion because they're making
less professional judgments. So when you think about this is better being
pragmatic, and passionate, it's better to be
prepared and passionate. But if you can only do one of these and you're talking to professional
investors, it's much better to
have a well-prepared, well-laid out pitch than to
have a highly-passionate one. Our third category
of science that successful founders engage in is what's called Symbolic Action. Founders will manipulate symbols in a way that makes them seem to be what people expect from a founder.
How does that work? Well, one way people
do manipulate things is through
personal symbols. So there you can see
Mark Zuckerberg in front of Congress versus
Mark Zuckerberg in front of his crowd of employees where he wears his famous hoodie versus
a suit in front of Congress. That's an example of market using symbols of personal style. That hoodie is a sign that
I'm a successful founder. While the suit is I'm a successful business person
in front of Congress. Founders will actually
manipulate symbols in that kind of way
and show personally that they look the way founders might be expected to look
in different circumstances. Another example, there is
example from a pitch deck. You can see this person is
showing in that pitch deck the symbols of the organizations they work for including
their time at Wharton. That's a symbol of
the fact that you might have a certificate from Wharton. It's a symbol of competence that also allows you to gauge
a person's symbolic action. The Top Ramen is there because another very common form of
symbolic action the founders engage in is giving up a lot of salary and a lot of money
to join a startup company. So even well-funded startups, founders seem to
take less money than they would if they were running a more normal organization. Are they doing it to save
money for the company? In some cases, yes. But
in other cases where a founder has already
raised a lot of capital, the amount of money that they
would get a salary wouldn't make a material impact on
the success of their company. But they still give
up a lot of salary. That's a form of
symbolic action to indicate to your investors
that you care so much about this company that you
are willing to give salary even though that may not actually be serving
useful purpose. That's symbolic action.
Another thing that successful entrepreneurs do
symbolically is they make sure they have spaces
that look the way that entrepreneurs are expected to have when their investors
come and visit them. So that might be a we-work
building that might be sitting on those giant inflatable balls
that you see there. What are the expectations
of a space in your area? If you're running a lab and
you have investors coming by, you might end up wanting
to make that lab look more labby if you're doing
a medical device startup, for example, and have
everyone coming in white lab coats and use pipettes all day long
when normally, your lab space looks disorganized and people are
eating food everywhere. So the idea that spaces meet expectation is another form of symbolic action that
entrepreneurs engage in. Entrepreneurs also think about
achievement symbolically. So getting on
that Forbes 30 Under 30 list showing prototypes,
showing awards, those are all the kinds of things that entrepreneurs
engage in to show that they are symbolically heading in the right direction. Finally, successful
entrepreneurs will show ties to procedure stakeholders in
a somewhat negative example. That list on the lower-right are the stakeholders who are
involved in Theranos which was a startup that was
accused of massive fraud, as of the time this
is being created, and had a blood test that
never actually worked. Now you'll notice that
all of those stakeholders hadn't almost nothing to do
with the medical industry. They were all very
prominent people. But the fact they were
prominent people, like former secretaries of state or secretaries of the defense, was actually considered an indication this was
a successful product. Symbolic action rather
than showing real results. So successful
entrepreneurs think about symbolism and use that
successfully in their pitches. So in the art of
the pitch you want to use a science and art
behind pitching. You want to balance the
visionary and the pragmatist, you want to think about
managing style and substance, think about passion
and preparedness, biased towards preparedness. You want to use
symbolic action to convince people you're the entrepreneur people think you should be.