I'm Kartik, and we're going to
discuss Finding Technical Resources. For software startups, a major challenge
that non-technical founders face is that of identifying
relevant technical resources. Some of the questions that
entrepreneurs must answer include, should I build the feature myself,
or is there an existing tool or open source resource that provides
the functionality we seek? Should we build internally or
outsource our software development? If we build internally, how do I find and
recruit people with the right skills? And finally, if we outsource,
how should we manage that process? In this session, I'll address
each of these questions in turn. First, is there an existing
tool I can use instead of developing the product from scratch? Now, we live in an era of modularity and
open source. Before we invest all the effort to
build a product, it's useful to confirm that there isn't something already
out there that serves the purpose. For example, if you're trying to build an
ecommerce firm, a number of existing tools like Shopify, Magento, BigCommerce,
Weebly and others might suffice. In fact, some of them help you set up
an ecommerce website using simple drag and drop functionality. If you're trying to build a basic website,
several alternatives such as Squarespace, Weebly, Wordpress and Tumblr can be used. For blogs on your website Tumblr and
Wordpress are quite popular options. If your trying to build
a responsive design, meaning the website that is compatible
with all kinds of screen sizes, there are several templates
that are available online. One well known tool for responsive design is Bootstrap,
which was originally developed at Twitter. Similarly if you're looking to launch
online courses, and you're looking for a website that makes it easy
to launch online courses, Teachable is a great website
out there that can be used. Suppose that you have concluded that an
existing tool doesn't solve your problem and you need to build it. The next question to ask is whether
you should build it in-house or outsource the product development process. I like to ask two questions
to help make that decision. The first question is
whether the feature or the product is a core differentiator for
your business. If the product or feature is strategically important, firms
usually will not outsource such features. For example, Google will simply not
outsource its search algorithms. On the other hand, if the feature
is operationally important but not a differentiator,
it becomes a candidate for outsourcing. For example, custom software tied to your
human resource needs or legal needs. Or if you have a tech enabled business,
but the technology itself is widely available. For example, if you're an ecommerce
company and you're looking to build a basic website with standard features
like the ability to browse products add to cart functionality and features of that
type, then outsourcing might just work. For example, if you're looking to build
an ecommerce company and you need a basic website with standard features like
browse products and other such features. The ecommerce website needs to work well,
but the technology itself
will not set you apart. This is something that you may not
need to build on your own, and outsourcing might work just fine. The second question I'd like to ask
is whether you have the necessary expertise in house. It might take too long to build
that expertise in-house and there might be outsiders with
the necessary expertise. Outsourcing might work in these cases. If you have concluded that you need
to build the product in-house, the next step is building
the right technical team. That can deliver on the product vision. You need to hire designers,
you need to hire developers. And in fact, many of the earlier comments
on finding your founding team members or hiring management team members are just as applicable in hiring members
of your technology team. A focus on skills, and culture fed and personality fed are equally
relevant over here. Even if you outsource product development, I would recommend that you own key
aspects of product management. For example, you should prioritize
the product features first. You cannot just share a product
vision with a freelancer, and expect the product back. You need to think through the features,
prioritize them, and communicated to the partner. Next, identify your budget. This will help drive decisions
regarding where to outsource. Also, spec out the product
in terms of user flows. Or perhaps develop some
low fidelity wireframes. Together, these decisions will help insure
that you can both find the right partner and also have a better working
relationship with that partner. Next, in addition to
owning product management, a good practice is to also be
involved in screening developers. One to ensure there's a match in
terms of both technical skills and also soft skills, such as
communication skills of the developer. It's useful to understand
their past projects. Meaning their entire portfolio. And understand their exact
roles within those projects. It's useful to conduct reference
checks for the developers. So all of this ensures that
you've found the right partner. The next question is, of course,
where do you find these partners and where do you outsource? Budget is actually a good starting point. For software development,
you can find firms at every price range. From as low as 25 to $50 dollars an hour
all the way up to 100 or $200 per hour. At the low end of the range you usually
looking for developers in South Asia or or Southeast Asia that are used
to servicing starters. At the mid range, you're looking at firms
in Asia as well as in Eastern Europe that are used to servicing startups
as well as mid-market companies. And finally,
enterprise-grade developers in the US or Western Europe cost
closer to $200 an hour. It helps to be in the same or
similar timezone as your developer. So your location, along with your budget might help
focus your search appropriately. And finally, once you've made
these choices about budget and location, you can look for developers
in a number of different websites. Marketplaces where you can find developers
and outsource development firms include VenturePact, RentACoder, eLance,
Upwork, Freelancer.com and many others. For designers 99Designs, Behancec,
and Dribble are great sources and in fact there are many other
great options out there. Finally, whether you build internally or you outsource your development,
you have to manage that process. To do that well, identify who,
what and when of your project. In terms of who, identify clearly a person
who is accountable on both sides. In terms of what the task or product
being developed is clearly defined and speced out. And in terms of when,
this is really just a deadline and everyone in the team understands
when the product or feature's due. Another recommendation is to
use project management tools to streamline the interaction
with their developers. Popular tools for task assignment and
tracking progress include Asana, Jira, Trello, Basecamp among others. And some tools that are commonly used for
messaging among team members, include Slack, HipChat, Skype,
Google Hangouts among many others. This list is by no means comprehensive. Start by looking at what's out there, and you will find that the task
ahead is not that overwhelming. There are many tools and
resources that you can count on and use to simplify to process
of building your product.