Today, we're going to talk about the lean approach to startups. Now, the lean approach is just one of many methods
that have been developed over the years for thinking
about how as a startup you can act quickly and
learn as you act. So as with the lean approach because it's very
common right now to discuss that in Silicon Valley
and it's circles. But this is just one of many potential approaches
that you could use in order to make sure that
you're experimenting and learning even as you're
biased towards action. So this is some results
from some data that I gathered of survival
time of startups. So on the y-axis, you can see the percentage of startup surviving over
a period of time, on the x-axis the amount
of time that has elapsed. So these are survival
curves essentially. This is the survival curves
of working startups that were founded by people
who went to Wharton and then divided into two groups; people who changed
their business plan radically, which is the red line, versus people who kept the business plan
basically the same as they originally launched their business idea,
the blue line. What you can see here is
the lines look pretty similar. In almost any other field when people change
their business radically, when a large company tries to change their business radically, their failure rate increases. But startups somehow
seem to be able to change a lot without failing and the secret to that is something
like the lean method. So let me show you how
the lean method works as described by
Steve Blank and Eric Ries. Again, I'll show you they had some thoughts about
how you can adapt this method if you don't
want to take all of the parts of lean
startups and use it. So this is Steve
Blank's original slide. Steve Blank is an adjunct
professor at Stanford, who has started seven different
companies and he was a business person
at these companies. He realized that there
was a standard model of product development
that described how products were
created in theory. On the top, you can see the step-wise approach
to marketing a product. You come with a concept, you go through
product development step, you do some Alpha
and Beta testing, and then finally you
launched the product. At the bottom, you can see
the waterfall or BDUF, big design up front, approach to developing a product. You start with
some requirements gathering, you go through a design phase, you start to put
all that together, and then you go
through some shipping. You'll notice that line in the middle in this
waterfall approach, that's when the concept
for the product freezes. Now, if we think about this way
the products are created, you'll realize there's
a few problems for you as a startup company if you're considering using these methods. One is, you spend all of your money at the very beginning
of this process, but you make your
money at the end. Most startups don't
have a lot of money, so wouldn't it be great
to have a method of making more money early on before you actually get to
the end of the project. The second problem here is
that you'll notice that you only gathering information of
consumers at the beginning, but you don't know a lot when you're creating
something new about what your customers want
the market may be changing. So if you locked down
your idea early on, you don't learn enough
from customers. So both of these
things mean that, it would be great to
have another method to think about how we develop
products and services, and that's what the
lean method is. So let's take that first example of how a product is introduced to the market and take Steve
Blank's insight which is that, all of these successful startups
he worked for didn't follow that initial project
introduction model, they followed a variation he
called customer development, which has four steps:
customer discovery, validation, customer creation, and then finally,
company building. So let's walk through those. The customer discovery method is really one of the keys to
this idea of lean startups. It means that, instead of going out there and telling
customers what they want, you're showing customers products and you're listening to them. This has to be done
by the founders outside of their building. You have to go out and
actually talk to people. Talk to as many people
as you can, show them your product
and listen, hear from them about what they like and what they don't like. Test your hypotheses and assumptions which is
something we'll be talking about in a future of course and thinking about continuously
learning as you go. What are you looking for when you do this customer discovery? You're looking to
validate your customers, you're looking to achieve
product-market fit. What's product-market fit? Two things define
product market fit. The first is that you will
demonstrated demand from early adopters in
your early market. That demonstrated demand
usually means, customers are willing
to spend money on your product and
that those customers represent some larger market that there's potentially
interests from. Also, you want to
find that customers are passionate about
your solution. Why do you need
passionate customers? Well, you want these customers
to act as references for other potential customers
again in the future, but also, because your startup, you won't necessarily
be able to offer all of the services and solutions, and backup that customers
might otherwise be used to. So if there is this passion, then customers will be
willing to go with you even if your product doesn't
solve all of their needs, because it solves the needs that are most critical to them. If you don't have customers
that are passionate, if you don't have customers
that demonstrate demand, if those customers
don't represent a larger potential
market for you, you don't have
product market fit, and you go back to
the first stage. That going back to the first
stage is called the pivot. So if you've heard
the word pivot, this is what pivoting is. It means you're changing
direction based on feedback that you're hearing
outside of the building, that you're being fast, agile, and opportunistic
and that you are almost celebrating failure. When you're learning that
you've done something wrong, you're going to go
back and change it. You might have to go
through this loop many times to be successful. Only when your
product market fit, do you move on to the next phase, the customer creation phase. Customer creation is simply
the phase of marketing. It's where you start to generate new customers and make
customers aware of your product by selling
your product through marketing, advertising, and other methods. You only do this after
your product market fit, because after
your product market fit, you actually know the reasons why it's time for you to
start scaling your product. Before that, you're
just guessing. After your product
market fit, you know why customers are
buying your product, you know what customers
you're aiming for and then, you can start to scale
up your company, and only after all of that, in the lean approach, do you
start building your company. So only after your product fit,
only if you're marketing, only if sustainable,
ongoing business idea, do you start to build
your company out. Now, if you've listened to any of our prior discussions about
building your company, you'll know that at Wharton, we actually don't recommend
company building goes last. You actually need to be
building your company simultaneously as you find product market fit
and launch your idea, which is hard because you're
doing many things at once. But we've learned that companies that don't pay serious attention to building company culture, hiring the right people, building out their team, actually run into
trouble later on. So you want to make sure that you are building
your company as you go, but it's usually lean method
that comes at the end. So Steve Blank had
a student who was also successful entrepreneur
called Eric Ries. Eric Ries had a realization
also he said, "Hey look, what's happening when we
build products now is, we're rarely using
this waterfall based approach, instead we follow
approach called Agile." In Agile development, rather than just to
come with a design, and then going through
a huge effort, and releasing
a product at the end, in Agile methods, we're
constantly releasing products. So you're always going through these series of short sprints, and in those sprints
what you're doing is, coming up with customer
requirements, adapting a product, getting feedback from
a live version of the product, and then going back out
and adapting it further. A continuous cycle of updating
and changing products. So this has been happening
in software for a while, but it's happening
increasingly in other areas like hardware development, services development,
where you're constantly modifying
your product. So if you take this idea of agile development and you take this idea of customer
development together, that is lean startup. So lean startups is about
constantly altering your product using agile methods, and altering your market
that you're going after using these lean methods, customer validation methods
until you find a mash, until we find product market fit
between your customers on one end and
your product on the other. This is the lean startup
approach that has helped change the way startup
development has happened. So there's some positives and negatives to
this approach as well. On one hand, any flexible
approach is good, but it doesn't need to be lean. If you want to use
another approach that encouraged experimentation
that's great also. So don't necessarily fall for the idea that the lean
approach is the right one. Discovery driven planning,
which is something I discussed in the first module of this class is another method
that you can use to do lean experimentation
without adopting the lean approach overall. Also, there are
some industry areas where you can't use
lean approaches. If you're developing
a new drug or a new car, lean is not necessarily
great where you need to do a lot of optimization
testing up front, big design up front or waterfall approaches
still work best. Also, Lean can be hard,
lean is exhausting. You're constantly out there
talking to customers, you're constantly
adopting your product, you're not giving
yourself a lot of time to do other things. So that means that building a startup is very hard
using the lean approach, you only wanted to as
lean as you need to be. So if we don't have to adopt a lean overall, what can we do? Well, here's a idiosyncratic
model adopted by Wharton from the work of Eric Ries and
Tom Eisenmann, and others. In this approach, we're
going to experimentation, but without adopting
the full lean approach. So we start off in this approach
with a business idea which is what you've come
up with in module one, and now you're going to create a series of hypotheses testing assumptions which we'll discuss
in the upcoming module. Uses to generate
minimal viable products which we'll discuss
in the next module, and then you do a series of
tests to find out whether or not you've found product
market fit or going to pivot. So in the future modules, we'll discuss exactly these issues.