In order to be able to conduct experiments on
your idea and learn more about whether it's
a good idea or bad idea before you spend a lot of
money and a lot of time, you need a minimal
viable product. A minimum viable product is
simply the easiest, simplest, most stripped-down version
of your product possible that can demonstrate to
people why you have value. So, it doesn't even need
to be a product per say. It can be a series of
interviews, or discussions, but the idea is you're
out there in the world, showing a little bit, talking a little bit
of what you do, and getting feedback
on that so you can learn whether
your idea is good or bad. If we put that in the context of the experimentation
material that we first introduced in
the Lean Startup lecture, you can see the minimal viable
product is what you do after you create your hypothesis and test your assumptions. A minimum viable product is simply a way of testing
this hypothesis quickly, and with the least possible
expenditure of resources. Module one of the course, the first set of lectures has a lot of different
minimal viable products. I'm going to give
you a quick overview here of some of
those product types, but you can certainly refer
to those other lectures to learn more about
customer interviews, surveys, and prototyping. So the easiest type of
minimal viable product to do, and one that you
definitely should be doing for any sort of product development
idea you have of new startup is
customer interviews. As general rule,
customer interviews should consist of
at least three interviews, and you need to think about who you're going to
interview as well. In rough priority order,
the best people to interview are the people who actually might
use your product, your potential actual customers. If you can't find those,
the next best people to talk to are extreme users, people who have needs
out there in the world, that may not be satisfied
with existing products. Might be people who are particularly heavy user
of a particular product, or who modify equipment
to make it their own, or have some other
extreme need that doesn't represent the common core
of the market. Following that, you might
want to follow-on customers, customers that might
be interested in buying your product
later, if not initially. Then finally, if you
can't find any of those, it's better to
interview somebody. So, people have easy access to, will be the last category of people you might
want to interview. If you can't find people who are willing to
interview you that's a pretty good indication
that you're going to have trouble finding
customers overall. So, if you can't find
customers who are interested in talking to you and having
a short customer interview, then that might be
an indication that you don't have a lot of
interest to your product. So once you have
customers to interview, you should think
about what to ask. There are a bunch of
bad questions to ask. So, asking people what kind
of product they want, or what features they want, usually is not
a very useful thing to ask. Because in those cases
what you'll find is, customers will often just tell you their wish-list without knowing what your costs or benefits are to earn
in this products. So they want the product
to be a floor wax and desert topic, to be able to fly and to be
able to cost at one dollar. So, just asking what they
want doesn't help because you're not going to deliver
all of those things. Similarly you can't ask them
what they're willing to pay. As soon as you ask about pay in a customer interview it
turns into negotiation. So it's very hard to
ask about pricing. You could also have
difficulty asking people about what their
demand is going to be. You can't necessarily
assume demand. If you say things like,
"Will you buy this product next year if we release
at the price you want?" Because you're asking
people to make speculation based on not even knowing
where your product is. On the other hand
customer interviews are very good for asking people about how they're currently solving their problems. When you use blank, what are you trying to get done? Why you do it that way? keep asking why. So there's actually a question technique called The Five Whys, where you just keep asking why, until you get to the root cause about why somebody is engaging in a particular kind of activity. You might ask people
how they do things now, and even better ask people to actually walk you through it. Then finally you can ask about how they decide
on an approach, and what's frustrating about
that particular approach. So, getting a sense of what the customer needs are
in that kind of way. Then finally, if you play role-playing games on
the computer you might actually see the following and know what those
three dots are, but three dots means you can just quietly pause and see
if people say more. So you want to talk less in customer interviews
and get more feedback. So that's one type of
minimum viable product. Another minimum viable product
before you even create a full product
is to do a survey. You need to do surveys in a really solid way and make
sure they're not leading. What does it mean for a survey
to be potentially leading. Well, a nice example
of this comes from politics in
the 1990s in the US, where the Supreme Court
found that flag burning, though considered
offensive to some people, was legally protected
free speech. In order to deal with
this potential issue, there was a move to have
a constitutional amendment to ban flag burning, and therefore get around
the Supreme Court ruling. In surveys that were done, the percentage of American
citizens who agreed that flag burning should be banned by constituent amendment
was around 60 percent. So it actually became an active
part of party discussion, to decide whether
or not to support this constitutional amendment. What few bothered to
ask was how much people actually cared
about flag burning. When you actually
surveyed Americans, less than a percent or
two of them consider this among one of the top 20 issues
facing the United States. In a similar way, it's
often common for people to do surveys where
they asked people, "Would you like a better way
of packing for trips? Would you like a more
tasty type of cookie?" You'll find people often agree, yes they'd love a better way
to plan for a trip. Yes they would love to
have a tasty cookie, but will they change
their behavior in order to make that happen? That's often less clear. So, doing surveys that are
really meaningful can be hard. Again if you refer to
do survey lecture, there's a lot more detail
on how to do this properly. But surveys are
another potential way of doing a minimal
viable product. With smoke tests we start to
get into actual products. My favorite example
of a smoke test was actually the thing that you see on the left side
of your screen, the Snuggie or slanket. A Snuggie is merely
a blanket with hand holes that you put
your hands through. So it's a wearable
blanket poncho. Before you dismiss
this out of hand, in 2012 where we
last had figures, the total market for Snuggies, I'm going to give you
a second to guess, $200 million, $200 million
of Snuggies were being sold. So, this is actually as
fairly substantial market. When the Snuggie first came out it was advertised
on television. If you ordered a Snuggie, it would take you six to eight weeks to get
your Snuggie delivered. So the question is, was
this bad logistics? No. The reason why
it took so long for Snuggies to be delivered is
they weren't being made yet. They were waiting to
see if there was demand from these ads they
put on television, and if there's demand
they'd make the Snuggies. So, that's an example
of a smoke test. Selling a product
before it's fully made. Obviously this is not
something you want to do for a cure for a disease, or some other meaningful thing. But for customer products
a smoke test can be a really good way to find out if consumers are
interested in what you do. So another way of doing this is that landing page
that you see there. Any page that you go to
they'd asks you, coming soon. If you want to be a part of
our beta test please enter email address and we'll contact you when the product
is available. That's an example
of a smoke test. Smoke tests are way of creating
minimum viable product, and seeing whether
the customers are interested in long before you actually launch the product to the public. So it's a very cheap way of testing demand in the real world. The most advanced kind of
minimum viable product before you actually
launch the product itself is a prototype. In this case we will
look at prototype, that's a focus on
physical products. You can see, these are actual examples of
prototypes being built. The one on the lower left corner is an example of a we you
being built by [inaudible]. The bottom right are the actual prototypes used by Apple to test their iPhones. A prototype can be something as simple as a cardboard,
or paper cutout. Doesn't need to be
very elaborate, but it lets people see how the product is going to
look in the real world, be able to interact with it, and for you to get
feedback on it. Products don't have to be
physical for prototypes. You could also
create storyboards, the one you see on
the right for a service. Or you can create
the kind of prototype, where you show screens or
wire-frames for an app, which is what you're seeing
on the left-hand side. So there's lots of ways
of creating prototypes. Again, I refer you
to the lectures on prototypes to go into
more detail on those. But prototypes are excellent
minimum viable products, because you can get
information through them, about how people are using
your product or service. So, when you give
people a prototype, watch people interact with them, and ask them to narrate
their experiences. If they try and give
you questions for you, like what does this button do, you reflect those questions back. What do you think
this button does? Don't ask to correct
people's actions you want to see how
they're using it. Then you start asking questions. What did they like
about the product? What did they not like
about the prototype? What was missing from it? What other improvements
could they see making this particular prototype? So, prototypes are
another powerful type of minimal viable product. So, MVPs let you test
your idea cheaply and easily. There are many
potential approaches, and it does not need
to be a final product. In fact a customer interview, or a survey are also good kinds of minimum
viable products to do. Your goal is to test hypothesis, to figure out
what assumptions you have about your business idea are correct and which ones are not, which is what we'll discuss
in the next section.