So how do you know what ideas to test and what kind
of MVPs to build? So the way you do that is
through hypothesis testing. Just like if you
were doing science, you're going to do
science to find out whether your startup is a good or bad idea and
a pivot if you need to do so. So let's talk about this. Hypothesis tell you what
to test by your idea. So in order to do that you
need to go through two steps. The first way to
do it, you need to figure out what your assumptions
of your business are. Finally, your assumptions in the surface sources of
uncertainty in your business. You learned a lot of ways to do this in the first lectures of this class where we
talked about things like discovery-driven planning
and business planning. All of those processes gave
you methods of thinking about uncertainty and ways
of figuring out what source uncertainty exist
in your business idea. What do you do once you have
these sort of uncertainty? You then develop those and
turn those into assumptions. So you need to go through each of the key assumptions in
your business and using either discovery-driven
planning or other methods look for the three to five key assumptions in your business by rating them. Once you found those three
to five key assumptions, you'll develop those
into hypotheses. So what's it mean to
develop hypothesis? Hypothesis, just like
hypothesis in science, has a number of characteristics. It has to test the
key assumptions of business, it needs to be falsifiable
and it needs to testable. Let's go through each of those and explain what those mean. So the first thing
your hypothesis needs to do is test at least
one key assumption. The key assumptions are
the things that need to be true about the world for your
business idea to succeed. So you may think that customers will be
interested in your taste, your cookie, your fast food, Ethiopian restaurant
chain, your brand new app. But what do you actually know about what
they're interested in? What are you assuming about
what they're interested in? You'll have surfaces key assumptions through
discovery-driven planning, through your business
planning process, and now you know there are three or four key issues
that we need to test. Maybe, we need to
find out whether are operationally we can run the restaurant the
way we think we are, whether our customers
actually value the key issue that
we're making as the part of our app
that we're developing. But whatever those
key assumptions are, those are the core
of your hypothesis. Once you've figured out what key assumption you're testing, the next step is that you need to create a testable hypothesis. What does it mean to be testable? Testable means that you
actually get an answer in a reasonable period of time whether your hypothesis
is right or wrong. So if your hypothesis
requires you to build your full product and launch into the world, that's not testable. If your hypothesis says 80 percent of people will love
our product but you don't know how you're going to figuring out whether
80 percent of people love it or not,
that's not testable. So testable hypothesis
needs to be one where you actually can run an experiment
and find out an answer. Once it's testable, it also
needs to be falsifiable. I happen to really love
this particular image. It's very useful for
true-false tests. I highly recommend teaching your children or
yourself to write this. But you don't want
this ambiguity between true and false in your own
hypothesis testing. It needs to be clearly
a falsifiable answer, where you know whether or
not you're right or wrong. So it can't be something ambiguous like people
will like our product, it needs to be direct number
or direct comparison. So let's put this together. You need to make sure
your hypotheses are clear, that they don't let
you fool yourself, and you want to make
sure you're not testing hypotheses you already know
the answer in advance. You need to have high levels of uncertainty when we test
the key assumption. So you want to make sure
your hypotheses are not ambiguous like people
will like a product, but that they are
clearly indicated. Forty percent of our customers
who tried to prototype will agree to pre-order
the product for delivery in
the next three months. That's clear, it
tests a clear issue, it is falsifiable if
40 percent of people who tried the product don't agree then our hypothesis is wrong. It is also clearly testable, we're going to give
people a prototype, an MVP and then they going to use that to do the tests
of their product. You might ask where we get
that 40 percent number from, the idea that it's 40 percent as opposed to 50 percent
or 30 percent. That 40 percent needs to be a key number for
our products to succeed and a way of getting that is through discovery-driven
planning approach that was discussed in a prior lecture. In conclusion, you
need to first identify your assumptions using
whatever method you want to use. You can do a qualitatively through your planning process or quantitatively through
discovery-driven planning process discussed in a prior lecture. You use it to generate three to five key
hypotheses that are both falsifiable and testable, that you can then
build MVPs for to test and to find out
whether you need to pivot or keep going in
the same direction.