This session is on branding and naming. We're going to talk both
about naming your company, as well as about naming your product or
service. I want to start with a story. I've been involved
recently with a startup. When they came to me, they were called
LifePak and they made insulation for what's called cold chain packaging,
meaning packaging that's used to ship frozen food or
refrigerated food to consumers. Their company was called LifePak, but they faced the problem that they didn't
own the domain name, lifepak.com. As a result, when customers would
hear the name of their product and go to the website,
they couldn't find them. They would often have to go to the search
engine and they feared that they were losing a large number of customers to the
frustration with finding them on the web. What LifePak ended up doing
was changing their name. And they ended up changing
their name to TemperPack. And TemperPack is now the name of
the company, and as you can see here, they own the full dot-com, TemperPack.com. Interestingly, they ended up naming
their first product Jutebox, because their insulation is made out
of the jute fiber and they thought, and it's also a play on the word
jukebox or music-playing box. So their product is called Jutebox and
their company name is called TemperPack. This example illustrates some of the key
challenges in naming a new venture. You have to decide how important is it to
own the dot-com or internet address for your business. And you have to think about whether
you should name the company the same as your product, or
whether you should use different names for product and for company. I'm going to take the very strong
position that in most cases you must have full dot-com availability,
that is, with no hyphens, with no special characters,
and preferably not a .net or a .org, or any of the other
top-level domains but .com. And my argument is that you're
just starting your business. There's no reason you can't pick
a name that's fully dot-com available. It's one of the few actions you can take, right at the beginning, that eliminates
one of the main sources of lost customers, which is that they can't
find you on the Internet. So given that you're an entrepreneur,
given that you're just launching your business, you have the luxury of picking
a name that's fully dot-com available. Now I'm going to argue that this is
true even outside the United States. So for instance, Snapdeal is one
of the largest dot-coms in India. In fact, Snapdeal was founded by one
of my former students, Kunal Bahl. Snapdeal, even though it
operates primarily in India, uses the domain name snapdeal.com,
not snapdeal.in. So even if you operate primarily in China,
or primarily in India, or primary in another country with a different top-level
domain, I argue that at the start of the business, you should take the time
to find a fully .com available name. Again, it's one of
the simplest things you can do to ensure you aren't losing customers
because they can't find you. This is an example of the company SawStop. SawStop makes a device
that stops a table saw if it encounters a finger or
a body part in the blade. It's quite a remarkable thing. It can literally stop the blade in a
matter of a few millimeters if it detects the presence of human tissue. Now what's so
great about this name is that, in addition to having the full dot-com
availability that is sawstop.com, this name describes exactly
what this product does. And immediately communicates the benefit
preposition to the consumer. As a startup, you have so few resources
to spend on marketing that you really want to make every element of your
marketing mix work very hard for you. And so, one of things you want to do
is pick a name that works very hard for you that once consumer see it,
they immediately know what it is your product does and
what its benefit preposition is. Now that's on the one hand. On the other hand,
one of the challenges you face in naming your company after
a very specific product and benefit proposition is that it doesn't
give you very much flexibility for what might happen and how you might
it need to adapt in the future. So for instance, one of the leading dot-coms in the early
2000s was a company called CDNow. Now, you might imagine that CDNow would
not be a very good name today for a business that sells music in
that CDs are essentially obsolete. And so, in this case,
a name that worked very hard for the company in 2000 doesn't
work very well in 2015. The second example I want to show you
is these two brands for soy milk. The one on the left is called WestSoy,
and the one on the right is called Silk. Now, which one would you rather drink? Names evoke attributes of the product. When you hear and see a name,
you make associations with that brand. Silk is actually a brilliant name in
my opinion because it combines soy and milk in a clever way, but it also implies
that this is going to be a very smooth beverage and it's going to be something
that gives you a great experience. And so when you're trying to
market something like soy milk, having a name that evokes smooth
is much better than having a name that doesn't evoke anything or
that is somewhat arbitrary, like WestSoy. The next issue I want to
illustrate with examples is how easy it is to pronounce the name. There's a heating supplies company
that was formerly called Wirsbo and was renamed Uponor. And I would argue that while Uponor
has some desirable attributes, it's quite hard to pronounce
especially in English. In contrast, the name Blackberry is
extremely easy to pronounce in English. All else equal,
you prefer a name that's easy to pronounce in the target market where
you're selling your product, and to that extent BlackBerry is
a much better name than Uponor. The next attribute of names that I
want to emphasize is spelling ambiguity. This is the website for utube.com, not that YouTube, but
rather U-T-U-B-E.com. This is the website for
the Universal Tube company. They already owned the domain utube
prior to the video sharing site, YouTube, which is spelled
Y-O-U-T-U-B-E.com. But because there's so many people who
mistype one version for the other, Universal Tube has actually set up their
website to be an advertising portal, not to be a portal into the business
of their tube manufacturing operations. This indicates to you just how
costly it is to have a domain that has spelling ambiguity and that can lead
users to some site other than your own. The strategy here is to pick a name
that either is unambiguously spellable, or to own in advance all of
the reasonable spelling variants that your users might encounter. Another really desirable attribute
in a name is that it's memorable. This is the website for Big Ass Fans. Now Big Ass Fans is
a really memorable name. In fact, that name came
about because customers used to call the manufacturer and say, are you
the guys who make those big ass fans, unable to remember the actual
name of the company. And so eventually the entrepreneur
decided, you know what, we should just rename our
company Big Ass Fans. So this is an example of a name
that's highly memorable. In fact, my guess is that long after this
session you're still going to remember the name of this company. So that's a really desirable property
in a name, that it's highly memorable. All else equal, you'd prefer a name
that's shorter rather than longer and that's because it's easier for
people to remember names that are shorter. And it's also less likely that they'll
mistype them when they're looking for you on the web on their mobile phone. But this is a company
called webuyanycar.com. And while really long,
it's actually fairly memorable, and I think it actually works fairly well. It communicates
the benefit-proposition of the brand. It's quite memorable. It probably is relatively easy to spell,
but its only attribute that's
a negative is that it's quite long. So I use it to highlight the fact that all
else equal, you'd prefer a name that's shorter to one that's longer, but
that in some cases length can be overcome if the name is itself quite memorable and
doesn't have a lot of spelling ambiguity. I mentioned previously
the global challenges, the challenges of having a single
brand name throughout the world. Sometimes the same brand based on
a Roman alphabet can work globally. For instance, Boeing is a brand
that just uses one brand globally, it seems to work just fine. But for some countries, particularly for
consumer brands in countries that use different alphabets, you may need
a global variant or perhaps a dual brand. So for instance, you can see here
what Starbucks has done in China. It's actually quite a brilliant name. They have continued to use the Starbucks
coffee logo that has the English version, but they've also added a Chinese version
which uses the characters [FOREIGN]. Which means star and then just the
phonetic [FOREIGN] to invoke Starbucks. So it's a combination of
the same meaning as star with some of the same sounds
of the English Starbucks. So it's a nice example of adaptation of
a global brand to a regional market where different characters or
different alphabets are used. So in sum, as you think about naming
your company and your product, these are the attributes or criteria
that you ought to be thinking about. First of all, can I legally and
practically use the name? And this means,
do I have the full dot-com availability? I should also note that you have to
avoid infringing trademarks of others. And that subject is beyond the scope
of this particular session, but as you're naming your company, you
certainly want to do a trademark search to verify that in fact no one else is
using the name that you're envisioning. The second criterion is the name
evokes the thing you're naming and so the example there of SawStop. Working very hard to
evoke the thing it names. Third is that the name has
positive associations. Think about Silk as supposed to Westsoy. Fourth is that the name is easy to say. You'd prefer BlackBerry to Ponner. Next is that it has unambiguous spelling. That in fact if you're going to call
it YouTube, that you've locked down both of the spelling variations, or the
additional spelling variants of YouTube. Next is that it's memorable,
that Big Ass Fans, you'll probably still remember
long after this session. That's a very memorable name. And lastly, that the name isn't too long,
but I qualify that by saying, sometimes if it's very memorable or
uses a sentence or a phrase. It can be easy to type,
it can be unambiguous and still memorable while being longer
than you might otherwise expect. And of course all of these factors
need to be considered in the context of targeting global markets, and you need to be mindful of how the name
will play outside of your home market. I want to turn now to an actual process
for generating and selecting those names, and to do that I'm going to use the
example of a bicycle seat that I created, and talk to you about the naming
process for this bicycle seat. So the bicycle seat has this desirable
property that it's quite comfortable, and the reason it's comfortable is because
of the geometry of the seat, but also because the seat pivots. Which allows it to rotate
to match the motion, the pedaling motion of the rider's legs. In terms of naming process,
I recommend two steps. The first step is that you generate a list
of what I'm going to call chunks, and chunks are just fractions of words. They're sets of characters that typically
represent a fragment of a word. Some of those will be dictionary words. So for instance, soft or flex. Those are all dictionary words. Some will be proper nouns
that relate to your product. So for example it might be Alp D'Huez or Armstrong if you're
looking to evoke cycling. The next one would be to look in, for
other roots, possibly from Latin or Greek. So for instance the roots,
leger or velo or studio or corso, those are all roots from other languages,
Latin or Greek, that evoke some of the same things that
you're trying to evoke with the product. And then, of course, there are affixes. These are either prefixes or suffixes
which could be applied to a name, and it might be things like pro or max or
star or tech or things like that. So once you have a list of chunks, and
typically you'll generate literally 100 or so chunks, you can then manipulate those
chunks in order to create entire words. And some chunks, of course,
you could use directly. Some you could use in
combination with other chunks. Some chunks you could mutate, adding
an additional character or a numeral or a spelling modification. And, of course, you can add affixes,
either prefixes or suffixes, to the chunks in order to
create a set of complete words. So shown here are a set of
results of that exercise. Some of those names are natural names,
meaning they are the putting together of dictionary
words that actually have meaning. They're either proper nouns or
they're dictionary words that, put together, have meaning, and
some of them are completely synthetic. Meaning, they're constructed words
that are suggestive or evocative of natural names and of words in English or
whatever your target language is. But they're actually synthetic, meaning
they don't exist in the dictionary. Of course in most settings, even though
I've said the dot-com is really important, you won't be able to get the dot-com for
a dictionary word. Most of those are taken and
they're very expensive to acquire. And so in most cases, in naming your
company or in naming your product, you're going to create a compound word,
several chunks put together, or a synthetic name that doesn't
exist in the dictionary. The next step is to do some
analysis on those names. I've shown here the actual spreadsheet
I used from naming this product. And shown here are a dozen or so
of the alternatives that I considered, and I show you here the criteria
that I put in the spreadsheet. How long in characters and then just
a one to three rating of the length. What associations, are they positive or
negative with the word? Does it have spelling ambiguity? Does it have the right tone for the brand,
performance oriented bicycle component, does it have the right tone of the brand,
and how easy is it to say? And this is just,
these are all just subjective judgments. And these judgments were
done by the internal team just to asses a large
number of alternatives. The result of this analysis was
the identification of the top ten or the top six or so names. Now I do want to point out
by the way that every one of these was fully dot com available. I take the fairly strong position
that I won't even consider a name for which I don't have full .com availability that's the reason that criteria
doesn't appear on the spreadsheet. Once you've created
the short list of names, then I recommend that you do some testing. And I'm going to show you an actual
survey that I used to test these names. In this case,
I used the survey tool Qualtrics, but there are many survey tools available,
Survey Monkey and others that are available to you to be able to run a
survey with a sample of target consumers. So, what I like to do is
first introduce the product, tell people what the product or
company is about, and then have them proceed to look at
a list of the final naming candidates. In this case, between six and
ten candidates, and simply rank them from hate it to love it,
five point scale. And then I give the respondent an
opportunity to provide a free association, to provide some comments on the name,
just in there's something that we missed, there's something we didn't think
about maybe a negative association with the name. Now it's of course important when you
design the survey that you randomize the presentation of those names because
there will typically be order effects in survey responses. So randomize the order, present
the target user, the survey respondent, with six to ten names,
have them rank them on a scale of a five box scale as shown here and then give them
the opportunity to comment on the names. Then you do something that
I think's pretty clever and pretty interesting which is you ask, you
go to the next screen in the survey and you ask them without going back, to simply
type any of the names they remember. What this does is it gives you
two pieces of information. It helps you identify the misspellings
because they aren't now referencing your name, they are simply recalling the name
and typing it so you can see how it is that people type and mistype the names,
that's very valuable information. The second thing it measures is recall, which of the names do
people actually remember. And so you can use this text input to
identify both spelling variants and to identify recall. I would recommend that you use this
survey with about 50 respondents, that is, that you try to get about
50 respondents to the survey. That will give you a very
good estimate of liking, of how people like the name,
of associations people have with the name, of recall and
of whether there's spelling ambiguity. And based on that,
you usually identify one or two clear winners that are going to be successful
for your product or for your company. In our case,
we identify the brand named Nexride. And the next thing we did, which is I think quite valuable
in coming to appreciate a name is to do some graphic design to create
a graphic identity for the brand. In this case I used one of the crowd
sourcing design platforms, in this case a company called 99designs, in order to generate some alternative
graphic treatments of that name. Shown here are the five finalists, the five I liked best of the submissions
that I received on 99designs, and based just on internal team
consensus we picked the bottom one. Which is actually the name of
the product and of the company. One of the things you learn in naming is
that although it's an agonizing process, it's filled with frustration. You feel like it's challenging, you're never going to get
something you're happy with. Once you've actually gone through
the process, run the survey, selected the name, have full .com availability,
and then you do a little graphic design. You look at the resulting output and you say of course that's the name of our
company, that's the name of the product. It could be anything else and in fact
looking back now it's some of those alternatives that we were considering, I realize we really did
to make the right choice.