This session I want
to talk about bias and meritocracy among startups. I think we'd all
like to believe that entrepreneurship is all
about the best idea winning. It's a pure meritocracy. But entrepreneurship
is a social process, and like any social
processes is subject to all kinds of biases and other sorts of barriers that affects some people
more than others. This is especially true
in entrepreneurship because it's very hard
to know in advance, what startup's going to
win and which ones aren't. So, decision makers like funders or other people who are deciding which
startups to support, have to use what
Laura Huang calls gut feel. The idea that you're
taking in a lot of information that is
hard to quantify, and using that to make a decision about what start up to fund. As a result of that, there are lots of potential biases that creep into this decision
making process. Many of those biases
are unconscious, and that makes them
even harder to detect. Now, we're going to talk about two of these biases
in this lecture. Will give some suggestions
to solving these problems. I think there is
progress being made, but some of the numbers
are fairly stack. Now, some of the biases results from fairly objective
decision-making. So one clear bias in startup
funding is about geography. The mean distance between
a venture capitalist and a company that it funds
is only 80 miles. That means that as you can
see in this chart here, which maps seed funding
in the United States. There's very few places where there's a lot of
venture capital funding. You could see those areas
lit up in blue. So, that is Silicon Valley, and Boston, and New York. Boston and New York are far behind Silicon Valley
in terms of funding. If you're outside of those areas, the chance you're getting funding through venture capital
is much lower. Now, this is not
just a bias based on the fact that people like
Silicon Valley people better, but because there's
a whole bunch of network effects of being
in these locations. So you get to meet more
venture capitalists. Also venture capitalist seem to monitor many different companies. So if they have to
travel long distances to be able to monitor
that company, then they can't monitor other companies in
their local area, so they'd rather be local. In fact, we have evidence that when a direct
flight is added between Silicon Valley
and another city, venture capital investment
actually goes up in that city. So that geography really matters, but there's a rational
reason for it. Now, many of the other biases among startups are
not as rational. So for example, around 40 percent of all business owners in
the United States are women. The people highlighted
in red in this chart. Can you guess
what percentage of VC backed companies of
at least one female co-founder? So the answer is
really depressing. It's somewhere between
four and eight percent to put it under a calculator. That number is not been improving
tremendously over time. Now, how does it happen? How do we end up
having 40 percent of business owners being
female but only a few percent of VC backed companies receiving money
being female lead? So there's a bunch
of reasons for this. One reason is pure
discrimination. So misogyny is a potential issue. There have been
Me Too Movement concerns that have happened
within venture capitals. A variety of venture capitalists and accelerator owners have been accused of and have had to quit because of harassment or
other sorts of issues. There is straight
misogyny that ends up happening in these kind
of environments. But even when you don't have that sort of
over discrimination, you have a bunch of
social processes that make it harder for you to receive
funding if you're a woman. One of those is about homophily. So homophily is
the basic social principal that's been known
since Aristotle. That birds of
a feather flock together. We like people who
are like ourselves. So there's a natural
attraction between you and people who shares
similarities with you. For various historical reasons, the majority of VCs in the past
have been white males. White males tend to
associate with other males. They also tend to be
from top schools. They associate with other
people from top schools. So a network starts to be
formed of these sets of people. So, individually, they may find less in common with a woman, because of the homophily issue. But also, the network starts to consist only of people
who look like each other. That makes it harder for a woman to enter this network because the Venture Capital
Network is all about informal connections
and warm introductions. If you don't know people who are part of that network
it's hard to get access. Even if entrepreneurs are looking to get access to network, and even venture capitalists are looking to fund
more female entrepreneurs. They look around and say, I don't know any
female entrepreneurs. Well, that's because
their network is formed by this
homophily principle. They tend to know other people
who are like themselves, and they never get to meet the female entrepreneurs who are being successful because they're not part
of their network. Then there's a whole bunch
of unconscious bias issues. So, there's a really interesting
set of studies about the questions that
venture capitalists ask women versus men. They tend to ask men more ambitious questions about
how they're going to win, and they tend to ask women
more questions about, how they're minimizing risks. So these unconscious biases
creep in as well. So, there's a whole
bunch of reasons why entrepreneurship is
not a pure meritocracy. So, pure discrimination, homophily at
the individual level, network access larger issue, and unconscious bias, all shape the decisions
people are making. I wish I could say there
was a single easy answer to these problems of bias. Unfortunately, there isn't. I think if you're a member of a minority group, or you
are a female founder, or any other group is not as well represented in
the founding community. You have to realize
that there might be these kind of
concerns coming up. So, many of my students never encountered any of
these issues, some of them do. I think that you have to be
aware that they're there. The good news is you're not the only person who is
working on this problem. There's a widespread recognition in the entrepreneurship
community, that entrepreneurship
needs to be more accessible to women and
minority group members. There's a lot of efforts to
try and make that happen. Increasingly the
evidence seems to be, that provided that a woman or a minority group members get access to the same
sorts of funding and opportunities that are provided to other entrepreneurs, that they seem to have
very similar success rates and in some cases higher success rates than the majority groups
who are receiving funding. So, it's about getting
that initial access. That's the problem.
There's a lot of groups that are trying
to make this happen. I give you the advice
that if you are one of these minority group members
or female entrepreneur, that you should think
about reaching out to these groups that support founders
in your community. You can also apply for
accelerators and launch programs. We have lectures on those issues. Think about your own networks. You might have to be more
aggressive at scouring your own networks in order to be able to get access to
these kind of communities. So, the world is
changing for the better, but not as quickly as we'd like. There is a possibility of bias out there that may affect you. You should realize though that the world is changing
on the better on this side and that
though the work might be harder they still have
every chance of succeeding. Once you have accessed that funding and initial resources, that the success rate
for these discriminated against groups
seems to be just as good as for any
other organization. In fact, if you're a funder looking to fund entrepreneurs, there's a real opportunity
there to fund more female lead and more
minority lead entrepreneurs. Because it gives you a chance
to expand your portfolio, and make investments in groups of people who have
just as good ideas and even better
potential outcomes that other people are
making investments in.