This session is on
Allocating Equity Among Team Members. Let me start by giving you an example. And then I'll explain what equity is and
how to allocate it. This is the founding team of a leading
mobile phone provider in China called Xiaomi. And Xiaomi was founded
by eight individuals. That was a really dream team that
came from the Silicon Valley elite from companies like Microsoft and Google. And the founder, the CEO, sitting in the middle here is Jun Lei
who is now a celebrity in China. When these eight people came together, they had to figure out what did
they bring to the table, and how would they share the rewards if
they eventually became successful. That's the essential challenge in
allocating equity in the start up team. By equity, we mean an ownership or
profit interest in the new enterprise. Most new ventures involve several key team
members, and there's an interest, there's some value in having those team members
share in the ownership of the venture. That's usually valuable for
several reasons. First, it's typically required
by outside investors. Outside investors want to know that the
management team shares their incentives to create an enterprise of tremendous value. It also allows the enterprise to pay
the team members with profit interest, or shares, as opposed to with cash. Cash is typically the most scarce
resource for the new venture. And lastly, many individuals who were
attracted to entrepreneurial ventures are also motivated by
the possibility that if they're really successful they might get
an outsize financial reward and that's only possible if you
have equity in the new venture. Now to explain what equity is,
I need to explain the concept of a capitalization table which usually
just goes by the term cap table. A cap table is simply an accounting of the
shares of the company and who owns them. I'm going to show you just a very typical
although somewhat simplified cap table. Typically, the founders would
own some chunk of shares. Here, I've shown the founders owning
500,000 shares, which represents half of the shares that are authorized,
so they own half of the shares, or 50%. There's usually some reserved shares for key team members who are hired
after the founding event. So for instance, this might be
the vice president of marketing, or the vice president of sales, and in this case I've shown 100,000 shares
reserved for those key employees or 10%. There's usually then something
called an option pool, which investors require that you set
aside for compensating future employees. And so many of you have probably heard
of someone joining a tech start up and getting options or stock options. And stock options come out
of this pool of shares. That's usually required by the investors, before they'll put money
into a new venture. Now just as a somewhat arcane aside,
options usually are, just as that term implies,
an option to purchase shares, as opposed to an outright
grant of the shares. That difference is really mostly relevant
for the tax treatment, and in countries like the United States, where a grant of
shares might be taxed as ordinary income. In order to avoid that,
most companies will allocate options to employees which don't normally suffer from
being taxed at the time they're issued. And then the last category of shares is
the shares allocated downside investors. In this case, I've shown that as
300,000 shares representing 30% of the shares that are authorized. So this is a cap table. Now I'm going to go through
each of the lines here and just say a few words about how they're
established, how they're allocated. And then we're going to turn to that top
row, which is the founders' shares, and how to allocate those
shares across the founders. Let's start with the outside investment. Now the outside investment, the number of
shares allocated to outside investment, is determined by two things. The first thing is how much money
the investors put into the company, and the second is, what the value of
the company is before the investors put their shares in, and that's a term
you've probably heard, called valuation. And in particular,
the pre-money valuation. That is, what's the value of the company,
what's the imputed or implied valuation of the company before
the investors put any money into it. So just in this example, let's assume
that the company arrives at a valuation, usually in negotiations with
it's investors of $700,000 US that's before any new money is put in. Then the investors invest $300,000 so now what the company has,
is it has $700,000 in value. That was the value it had
before it got the money. And it now has $300,000 in
the checking account, and so its total value is now $1 million. And because the investors provided
300,000 of the total value of $1 million, they own 30% of the company, so
that's how that number is calculated. The second issue here is how
to allocate the option pool. The option pool, just by convention, is usually established to be about 10%
of the shares that are outstanding. And that's usually just
a requirement of the investors. The investors want you to set aside some
shares so that you can compensate future employees, give them some incentive
to increase the value of the company. It's usually established by negotiation. Those shares may or
may not be issued in the future, but they have to be shown on the cap table. And if you've ever heard
someone discussing cap tables, talking about share price on a fully
diluted basis, for instance, that notion of full dilution means that
you assume that all of those options were issued, and you use those shares
in the calculation of share price. The next piece is the equity allocated for
key team members. This would typically be vice
president of marketing, for instance, vice president of sales. The number of shares here is usually
established by the market conditions, that is what you have to offer to be able
to attract the right people to your team, and also to some extent when
they joined the venture. So if these are very late hires, after
the company is already up and running and quite valuable. You might need relatively few shares here. But if it's right at the beginning, typically a fairly large number of shares
have to be allocated to retain and attract the key members of your team
who aren't necessarily founders. All right, that's all background that
leads us up to this key question which is a of those 500,000 shares
that are shown here in the cap table as going into the founders
how do we determine, how many of those shares each member
of the founding team actually receives? So let's turn to that question. As background I want to show
what typically the founding shares look like before and
after financing. So often at the very beginning of the
enterprise or after the founding team has worked on it for a little while
is when you actually establish, you assign the equity
to the founding team. And let's just say for the sake of
argument that shown here on the left, we valued what we have when we start
the company at about $300,000. Now, at the time of investment we have
the cap table as I showed previously. And I showed the value of what the
founders began with plus the equity for key employees plus the option pool for future employees plus the equity
purchased by investors. Now notice that in this example
I've shown that the value of the company at the time of
founding was about $300,000, but by the time investment came in,
if the team is doing its job, it's actually increased the value of
what it has, of what it started with. And that's why I show that line moving up. And so the value they started
with was about $300,000. At the time of financing it,
the time that CAP table was computed, the value I estimated at $500,000. Now of course,
this is just an illustrative example. The specific numerical values for
your company will differ widely. And so, you should think
of this just as an example, to walk through some of the arithmetic. So now I want to go back to that founding
moment when the founding team is sitting there looking at what they have
and saying okay, how do we divide this up? Now, if you think about it,
what should determine how those assets or how those shares are divided
among the founding team? Well, it's really,
what did the founders bring to the table? What assets did they bring to the party? And those assets you can think about as
occurring in three different categories. The first category would
just be the original idea. Who came up with the idea and
developed the opportunity and perhaps developed alongside that
some intellectual property? Maybe a product design, maybe
an algorithm, maybe some market research. Some original intellectual property that
formed the genesis of the raw opportunity. That's the first category of
assets that founders bring. The second category is what we call sweat,
and that's short for sweat equity. And sweat simply means the effort that the
founding team will put into the venture without cash compensation, and so
that's why we call it their sweat. They're earning equity in
the venture through their sweat, they're not being paid cash and
instead they're being paid in effectively a share of the future
profits or future value of the company. And then the third category is cash. And no matter how you slice it, the
founders almost always have to reach into their pockets, or
put some money on their credit card, and come up with some money to
get the venture started. It's usually not the bulk of the money
required to capitalize the business, but there's almost always some
cash requirement, and there's really no choice but for the
founders to come up with it themselves. Now, of course there are no
real algorithms for precisely estimating the value of those three
different inputs for every situation. There is still some bargaining and
some negotiation that's involved among the founding team members
in order to come to an outcome. But, these are the basic principles. What did everybody bring to the table and what was the value of what
they brought to the table? So now I want to go into a little more
detail on how to actually calculate that, and really how to think about it. To do that,
we really need to talk about the sweat. The sweat is one of the things
that's hard to value, and I want to give you the approach that
I've taken in several new ventures, and I've seen others take it as well. I think it works quite well. And it essentially starts with,
what's the market value of the labor that the founders will be
devoting to the enterprise? So, for instance, let's imagine
that someone is quitting their job. And they're quitting their job, let's say, as a product manager working
at a relatively large company. And let's say they were being paid
$100,000 per year, in that job. If they then devote a year of their time, then logic would suggest
that that's worth $100,000. The market has just paid them $100,000 per
year for similar kinds of services and now they're going to perform those services
for a new venture without receiving cash. And so logically,
that should be worth about $100,000. So, that's the notion of using
the market value of services in order to establish what is
the sweat really worth. And that allows you to accommodate the
fact that different people actually have different market value. If you need to hire a sales person, sales
people are often paid very differently than, say, software engineers
in different industries. And so it allows you to use their
market value in similar roles, perhaps currently or in the past, to establish the value of the inputs
they're bringing to the startup. However there's a challenging issue here,
which is, those who were providing the cash
to the venture rarely want $100,000 of their cash
to be $100,000 of sweat. They've view the sweat as a little bit of
sort of what we might call funny money. It involves some sort of soft
calculations, and so for that reason, there's often an adjustment
that values a dollar of market value of sweat at less
than a dollar value of cash. And let me give you the arguments for
that. The argument is basically that $100,000 of
sweat is worth less than $100,000 of cash. Here are the three main arguments for
why that might be so. First, often people don't quit their jobs,
and so what they're really doing is they're using
their free time to work on the startup. And people often value their free time
at less than they value their salary or their wages. And not only that, they're often
not giving you their best hours. They're not giving you the same hours
they're giving in their day job. And so that's one logic for
valuing the sweat. It's perhaps slightly lower than the cash. The second argument, it's a little
bit of an arcane tax argument. But cash investments are made
with after tax dollars. So when you invest $100,000, those are your hard earned dollars
after you paid taxes on them. The sweat is usually
calculated on a pre-tax basis. So for that reason,
investment's after-tax, sweat is pre-tax,
you need some adjustment. And then the last reason that sweat is
often valued at a lower rate than cash is that cash is king. Cash is usually the scarce
resource in the startup, so cash is the hardest thing to come up with. Sweat, less so, and so for that reason, we often value cash
at more than we value sweat. So let me walk you through a typical
calculation, how to value these inputs, and how to end up with the allocation. So let's imagine we have three partners,
founding partners, Claire, Huijing, and Sanjay. These are our three partners, and
Claire actually had the original idea. And so Claire brought the opportunity and
the idea to the party. She brought the others together to say,
hey, let's go work on that. And so we're going to put a value
on that opportunity identification. And somewhat arbitrarily, because I
haven't even said what this venture is. I've just put the value of $100,000 here. This piece is going to be
a negotiation among the partners. What is really the opportunity
worth relative to the sweat and cash that we're putting in? I put in $100,000, but obviously if
Claire had invented a cure for cancer and had a patented molecule, we would
value it at much more than $100,000. And if all she did was buy
people coffee and say, hey, I've got this idea for
a taxi hailing app for a phone we might say eh, Claire,
that's not really worth much. So this is just a representative example
where we value the original idea at $100,000. Okay, let's now look at the sweat piece,
and the way I've shown it here is I've assumed that Claire has
foregone $120,000 in wages. She's putting in $120,000 of her sweat. Huijing has put in $60,000. Sanjay has also put in 60,000. And this is typically, not just the sweat
that's been put in to date, but also a commitment of sweat, typically for
some period into the future. Often until the first financing comes in,
and people can start to be paid salaries. And then if you look at the next column,
the after discount column, what I've done is to apply a 50% discount
to those market values of the sweat, in order to come at an equivalent
cash value to that sweat. Again, the 50% is
the result of a negation. It's a value that I've often used. I think it's about right, but you're going to have to work
that out with your partners. And then,
the last category of input is cash. Again, it's very hard to start something
without putting at least some cash in. I've shown here, the founders
putting in quite a bit of cash. So they put in 60, 70,
$80,000 in cash here. Claire put in $40,000. Huijing put in $25,000. Sanjay put in $15,000. And of course, cash, a dollar of
cash is worth a dollar of value, a dollar of cash, almost by definition. So, putting that together, you can see the
percentage ownership that corresponds to each of the three categories of inputs for
each of the three founders. And we could add those up to
estimate what fraction or to calculate what fraction
each founder owns. So for instance, Claire would have 33.3% plus 20% plus 13.3% which, let's see, rolls up to 66.6%. It would be Claire's interest, would
be the fraction of the original founder shares that Claire would have a claim on. All right, so that's an example of
the arithmetic that can be done before any new money has
come in to the enterprise. Now, if the idea of filling out
a spreadsheet like this with your founders really starts to make your stomach turn, then there actually some softer
ways to have this negotiation. I'm going to show you an example that I
used in a recent venture where we thought, where it just made a little
friendlier to move some geometric shapes around on a graph. So what we did was to say,
there are various kinds of roles and inputs that are going to be
required in this new venture. Those are represented here by the columns. You can see the left
most column is the idea. The right most column is the cash. And there's some other inputs described as effectively as the phases of
the creation and growth of the enterprise. That's the additional columns. And then we put the team
members as the rows. And all we did was simply put a square,
a triangle, or a small square in the cell to reflect people's relative beliefs
about the road of contribution of each of the partners to each of the phases
of the development of the enterprise. Now of course you can put
numbers in the cells but this is sort of as they say a little
friendlier way to have the discussion. We actually found that in
this particular instance, the team members converged
remarkably quickly. There was remarkable agreement on who came
up with the idea, who's put in the cash, who's going to do this,
who's going to do that, and this was actually a nice way
to facilitate that discussion. You can probably imagine that once
you had this kind of representation of the relative contributions,
you then need to do some arithmetic to convert this into some
actual numerical percentages. There are a couple of
issues that often come up, when you actually go to make
this happen in practice. The first issue is that sometimes a team
member doesn't work out as planned. That might be because they don't do
what they actually committed to do. It might be that the team
doesn't get along. It might be that you decide you really
need a different person on the team. And of course one of the problems is, if you've allocated shares right there
on the first day, you are essentially stuck with that share holder forever,
and that can be quite awkward. So, typically the way it works
is that you issue the shares but the shares don't vest, meaning
the share holder doesn't actually have The full title and interest in the shares,
until some time has elapsed. Usually, that time period is
somewhere between three and six months,
before the first vesting milestone. And if within that first
three to six months, you realize there's going to be
some problem with a team member, you can part ways without having
them as a shareholder forever. The second issue that
comes up is tax liability. In many tax jurisdictions and
specifically in the United States, you incur a cash tax liability even for
a non-cash grant of stock. So, if you get a grant of
$100,000 in stock you would owe the government taxes on that $100,000,
even though you never got any cash. That of course is usually a real problem
for people joining a new venture, who don't have a lot of cash. So, typically there are two strategies. The first is to grant
shares to the team very, very early, when you can argue
they have almost no value. Often you'll argue they have a value of
maybe one cent, or a fraction of a cent. And you'll go ahead and
pay taxes on that stock. But, the value will be so low that there
will be very little tax liability. The second approach is
to issue stock options, which are not actually the stock itself,
but rather the right to purchase stock in the future at some pre-specified price,
usually a quite low price. So, stock options themselves
are quite valuable, but the way their taxed in most tax
jurisdictions is that they aren't taxed until they're actually exercised,
not when they're originally issued. Now, it goes without saying that these
are complicated matters, they vary by jurisdiction and so, you really need
to consult with both a lawyer and an accountant as you think about
these formation issues, and as you decide how to grant
stock to your founding team. The last issue I want to address
is how we compensate advisors, and how we allocate equity to advisors. Advisors can often add value for
two reasons. First of all, advisors often have
specific expertise that they can convey through meetings, discussions,
introductions, emails, and so forth. And they're sort of doing real work for
you and it's sort of services rendered, but advisors also help you by lending
reputation and credibility to the venture. And it's only fair that you compensate
them for both of those things. Both for their reputation, you're going to
put them on your website and in your investment documents typically, and for
the actual services that they perform. And the way I like to think about this is
to think about what is the economic value of these services that
are being delivered. And what's the value relative to the other
inputs that are being provided at the same time, that is the cash and
sweat of the founders? So, let me just give you
a sample calculation. Let's imagine that you retained
an advisor, that advisor is committed to spending four days over the next
year at a value of $5,000 per day. After all, these are typically quite well paid people
with quite a bit of deep expertise. So, that would give you about $20,000
of value that was contributed. Let's also imagine that
the value you impute to their enhancing your credibility is perhaps
$15,000, that is what's you're be willing to pay to be able to list
them on your website and put them in your investment documents to convert
some credibility on what you're doing. So, that would give you
a total value of $35,000. Then if you believe that logic and if you
believe those inputs then that adviser should received equity worth
approximately $35,000, just the same as the equity of a cash investor
who would invest $35,000 or of the founding team who
would give $35,000 of input. This calculation's worth doing, but
I do want to point out that there are some norms in venture backed start ups and
advisors typically end up owning about a quarter of a percent to 2.5%
of the equity, that's per advisor. And the specific values over that range
will depend on who the advisor is and what they're bringing. So, a relatively famous person, individual joined your team really
early and puts in quite a bit of time. You're going to need to allocate
at least 2.5% of equity for that kind of engagement. On the other hand, let's say a more, just someone with some specific expertise
with maybe not much of a public reputation whose going to help you in a relatively
limited way late in the process, you would expect that to be more
like a quarter of a percent. So, that gives you a sense of
the practical range of how advisor equity varies based on what it is
they're actually delivering.