This session is called The Pivot. Pivot is a term you hear quite
a bit in entrepreneurship. And a pivot refers to a significant
change in direction by a new venture, usually because the original
plan isn't working out. So you proceed with Plan A and
then you pivot into Plan B. For example, Keya Dannenbaum
founded a company called ElectNext. And what ElectNext did, was provide to voters information about
candidates on an issue by issue basis. So you could reflect how
you felt about guns, how you felt about taxation,
how you felt about social issues. And ElectNext, would tell you which candidates matched
up with you based on your interest. The problem with ElectNext,
was that it was really seasonal, so during major elections, you could
get a lot of customers interested. But then it would be,
at least in the United States, sort of a long four years before
the next round of interest. So Keya pivoted into really a quite
different business called Versa. And what Versa did was to try to build
the engagement with voters, really with the public at large, throughout the year
by allowing them to participate on Op-Ed pages in printed publications and
on the web. So Versa was Plan B, and
was her pivot in response to a failure to really get what we might
call traction with Plan A, with ElectNext. Now I'm of two minds about pivoting. On the one hand, of course, if Plan A is
failing, you gotta go with Plan B. And entrepreneurs face a lot of
intrinsic uncertainty, when they start a new venture and so if that uncertainty
is resolved, and it turns out that Plan A just isn't going to work, then
there's no harm in changing direction. Given the intrinsic uncertainty in new
ventures, pivoting is extremely common. I would say at least a quarter of
the ventures that I'm involved with, will do some kind of pivot. On the other hand, if you jump head along
into the first opportunity you consider, and without really some careful analysis,
then the pivot might have been avoided, and a waste of time and money could have been avoided,
with a little bit of work up front. For example, when I was 25,
I spent several months of my life building a snow bike that was based on having
a tractor tread, instead of a rear wheel. And this was part of a plan to
cross Antarctica by bicycle. Now, what I had failed to do, was really do a careful analysis
of the topography of Antarctica. Instead of investing months in building
a bicycle, I should've done a little research, about what the train
actually looks like in Antarctica. This was before the days of
Google Images by the way. And had I known what the train
would have looked like, I would have realized that the snow bike
was really a foolish idea to begin with. One effective strategy for
dealing with uncertainty, is to actually consider several
possible alternatives from the outset, to spend a little bit of time and
effort to explore them. And only when some of that
initial uncertainty is resolved, to then commit and invest and develop. And that reduces the probability
of having to make a pivot. Nevertheless, as I said before, entrepreneurship is intrinsically
fraught with uncertainty. If you're not doing something new and uncertain, then you're really not doing
something interesting in entrepreneurship. As a result of that intrinsic uncertainty,
it's not at all common to have to pivot. But, smart entrepreneurs,
are those who can marry an exploration of several concepts
with a willingness to pivot when, and if, the concept they pick
doesn't materialize as planned.