It's extremely important for
entrepreneurs to understand the concept and
the importance of branding. Carefully branding your product or service
allows you to differentiate it from other options available in the market. It oftentimes also allows you
to charge a price premium. For example, Warby Parker products
are less expensive than many other eyeware options but are more expensive than
many other eyeglasses available online because of their unique brand. Let's not forget Apple was
a start up at one point in time. Branding also allows you to create a
personality or an image for your company. Is it a company that
is breaking tradition? Harley Davidson is a well known motorcycle
brand, but their EV motorcycles will be called livewire because they want
to show it will break tradition. So let's spend some time
studying branding in more depth. So what is the brand? Brand is a marketing device designed
to create value that is above and beyond the core product or
the service benefits. It's beyond the functional
benefits of the product, beyond the features of the product. Brand adds value. Brands create value for the organization by often increasing the
effectiveness of our marketing actions. If our brand is strong,
our advertising works better. Our selling works better. In many cases, a brand can also
create a separable company asset. You can sell it or
license it without selling the company. Brands create value for the customers
by differentiating it from competitors. Brands also serve as
a credible signal of quality. Brands also offer emotional and social, self-expressive benefits,
we call this brand personality. So let's go a little bit deeper into
each of these aspects of a brand. How does brand create value for
your organization? A very nice study conducted by McKinsey
looked at 130 consumer goods companies and found that companies with strong
brands generate returns 1.9% above the industry average. Weak brands generate returns
3.1% below the industry average. And more importantly,
half of the market value of fortune 250 is sitting in intangible assets and
a big part of that is in brands. What does that mean? Brand actually is a valuable asset that
your shareholders are willing to pay for. Brands can help differentiate your
product in the mind of the customer. In a very well known
classic study on branding, expert beer drinkers were asked to
taste beer under two conditions. One in which they could see
the brand they were drinking, and another where the labels were removed. In each case they were asked to give
their opinions on how similar and dissimilar were the beers that they drank. So in the blind taste test
where the labels were removed, the various options were rated to be
very similar except for Guinness. I'm not a beer drinker, but
I'm sure there must be something very unique about Guinness relative to
the other beers that made it taste different even when
the labels were removed. Now, look at the case where they
could actually see the labels. When brand labels were visible, the products that were
similar tasted different. Any such differentiation allows each of
these brands to charge a higher price. We know that from basic economics,
that differentiation allows each of the brands to be able to charge
a slightly higher price. Brain studies have also shown that
branding has a distinguishable effect. Those interested in these brain
studies may want to look at the work of Professor Reed Montague and see how he compared coke versus
Pepsi using MRI analysis. Brands also serve as
credible quality signals. The question that we ask is for what kinds of products do brands
serve as strong quality signals? For this, we can classify our brands, our
offerings into three different categories. And economists often put them
in these three categories. Search goods, experienced goods,
and credence goods. So what do we mean by search goods? Search goods are those where a potential
buyer can be relatively sure about the quality and
appropriateness of the product by say, looking at the characteristics of
the product by going to the website. For example, when I'm buying a new PC,
I just go to the website, look at the specs, and
I'm very comfortable placing an order. So for me, a new notebook computer or
a new pc is a search good. I just did that a few days ago I went
to the website of the company looked at the specs and saw which one fitted me
better and just placed the order and it's hopefully going to
arrive this morning. Now let's think about experience goods but
when I'm buying a car I still go to the website, look at the
specifications but I'm not as comfortable. What do I want to do? I want to do a little more. I feel the need to test drive, experience the car in a little more
to see if it matches what I want. When it says it has enough space, what does it really look like when
it says it has good acceleration. When I put my foot down,
what does actually happen. So specification alone is not enough. When I'm thinking of seeing a movie,
I look at the genre of the movie, I look at the name of the actors but
seeing the trailer add some value. We shall call these experienced goods. Now let's look at the third
category of credence goods. How about consulting services,
legal services or from a different angle cement that goes
into the foundation of a bridge or vaccine that will prevent me from getting
sick, or financial planning advice. In all these cases, the outcome
takes a long time and whether or not what I purchased was good or
bad will not be known or by the time it is known it is too
late to take corrective action. We call these credence goods for
example, financial planning. By the time I found out it
didn't do the right thing. It may be too late, in all these cases,
especially for credence goods. Trust is more important and
strong brands provide that trust. It's therefore not surprising that
in many of the credence goods industries incumbents with strong
brands have a great advantage. Online financial advice is
difficult to break into for new entrepreneurs but easier for
strong existing players. The same is true for consulting. So if you are entering into these markets, you need to make sure you have
a very unique value proposition. I think this is an important
concept to understand. Historically, brands were used in
search goods kinds of products to create differentiation where
differentiation did not exist. In today's world branding has
much more power as a signal of quality ingredients,
goods, types of products. So if you are entering
a credence goods market, you need to recognize the importance
of creating a strong brand. Because that's where you need a trust
between the buyer and the seller and the brand provides that trust. I put my name on it. Another aspect of branding that's
useful to know is the concept of brand personality. Professor Jennifer Aaker from Stanford
has done some very interesting and path breaking work in this area. She studied brands in the US and
developed the concept of brand personality using very
thoughtful approaches and pointed out five different brand
personalities that exists. And the 5 personalities she
identified were first sincere, brands such as Ford and
Hallmark fell in this category. The next one was competence or
competent brands. Brands such as IBM and Mercedes were
in this category based on her studies. Rugged, Marlboro, Levi's, Harley,
Davidson fell in this category. Sophisticated, Tiffany and
Aston Martin were in this category. Exciting when she did her study,
Virgin and Yahoo were in this category. What are the implications
of this to think about? Each entrepreneur has a personality? Should the brand you create match
the personality of the entrepreneur? Steve Jobs had a personality
of being a rule breaker. Elon Musk has a certain persona. Should the brand match the personality
of your target segment or should it complex what is missing in them? Are people buying Levi's jeans rugged or
do they want to appear rugged? Some brands can create emotional
value through their personalities and then appealed to the target audience
either by reinforcing who they are or by complementing what they are not. In summary, it's crucial for entrepreneurs
to understand the concept of branding. Good branding allows you to
differentiate your product from others, think of Warby parker. A brand also signals the quality of your
offering by creating a trust between the buyer and the seller. I am willing to put my name on it. Brands through their personality,
also offer an emotional benefit by allowing consumers to be who they
are not, or to express who they are. So think about branding as a key concept,
as you're thinking about launching your new venture, and
I wish you all success in this process.