So we've been talking about how
important getting your founding team balanced right is, and running a startup. But I wanted to talk about the nitty
gritty of how do you actually incentivize your team, and how do you come to an agreement about
what your founding team is going to do. So I want to start by giving you
a little bit of a mini case, let's call this a puzzle. Let's imagine that there are three friends
in an MBA program, say they're working on an MBA program who come up with
an idea for a startup together. So they all generate together
in a brainstorming session, they all agree each of them has
come up with the idea together. And each agreed to put $10,000 in
the startup, and they put their cash in. And they each put the same amount of work
into getting the startup off the ground, interviewing people, doing some of the things we've talked
about in the lectures you've seen so far. So early days,
startup has just gotten underway. But they've all put in equal work so
far, and they agree to split the work into
three roles, CEO, CTO and CFO. And these are all equally responsible for
making the company succeed. And they have the same sets of basically
number of hours of responsibility and criticalness to the company's
long term success. How should these three
people divide equity? So let me give you a second
to think about it. So I actually post this
question to my MBA students. And I want to give you a little bit of
Cisco breakdown of the typical answers. So about 40% of perouty of the class tends to want to divide
equity evenly, which makes sense. All three of these groups of people
have made some important choices about what to do with their startup, they're
all doing their jobs to make this happen, they're all investing equal amounts of
money, they all came here together. So based on the material
that's happened so far, it isn't an even even equity split,
so that's what people tend to pick. A smaller group tends to do
even with some sort of caveats. So they will do some sort of equity or
vesting provision, which we'll talk about in a second or some other provision
that will make the division equal, but with some sort of asterisk and
some sort of potential change. We'll talk about some
of those in a moment. And then for some reason, about 20% of
the class just picked something else. So they think the CTO should get more
equity or the CEO should get more equity or there should be some sort of trial by
combat where the winner decides things. Some sort of unusual pattern,
and as you could see, I actually agree with the plurality here. Based on the facts that we've seen so far,
it makes sense to split the equity evenly. But the problem is that you're basing
it on what's happened in the past. And what's the danger in start ups is
not what's happened in the past, but what happens in the future. So a lot of things can
happen in companies, and I've seen all of these happen
among student start ups over time. So changes happen in
the direction of the company. So what happens if you no longer need a
CFO because the organization no longer has that financial component. You can have new hires. You bring someone else on who's new and
important in your organization and they need an equity stake and
maybe they're more senior. What do they get or
what role do they have? There can be changes in
personal circumstances. Someone can get sick, someone can decide to leave the job
because they're having emotional issues. There could be a crisis of some sort
that happened inside the organization, and it could be inter-group politics. It turns out that two out of three
founders may end up turning on the third one. So these are all issues that can happen
inside organizations and do happen. These are the uncertainties
that can cause major concerns. So you need to think about not just
what's happened in the past and what you're planning on
doing in the future. But also what might happen that's going to
change direction of your company and we call this uncertainty. And I think it's worth hearing about
someone who may not know a lot about a lot of topics, but certainly knows
something about uncertainty and getting their impressions about what the
categories are we have to worry about are. >> There are known knowns,
there are things we know, we know. We also know there are known unknowns. That is to say, we know there's
some things we do not know, but there are also unknown unknowns. The ones we don't know, we don't know. >> [LAUGH]
>> So that is of course, Donald Rumsfeld who was the US Department
of Defense Secretary during the Gulf War, or the second Gulf War. The invasion of Iraq,
and he famously said, when answering the question about what's
going to happen in the future and we got a big laugh at the time,
the statement that you just saw. But I think all else aside, this is one of the most profound
epistemological statements about uncertainty that you're likely to
get outside of philosophy course. So let's look at what
Rumsfeld actually said here. He said, there are no unknowns. These are things we know, we know. So what do we call known knowns? We call those things facts. Known knowns are things that we
actually have certainty around. So in that little example that I
gave you about the founding team, what are the known knowns that the team
all came with the idea together, that the team decided to divide
the roles evenly at that point. That they had all put in $10,000. Those are facts and definitely
important in making the decision about how you're going to divide equity. But then there are also known unknowns,
things that we know we don't know. So what are things we know we don't know? Well, there's a lot of things
that happen in organizations. We know that people who may or many not
end up deciding to take a full time job or quit their job to join your startup. You know that you may need to raise
funds from the organization from some organization, but you don't know who it
is going to be from or at what point. These are known unknowns. You know that these are uncertainties
in your organization, but you know that something is
going to answer these questions. You have to figure out how
you're going to get fundraising. People have to quit their job
to join your startup or not. So you can design systems and
we call this continuous improvisations like vesting that help
address these sets of issues. So vesting would give you
difference to amounts of equity if you decide to leave your
organization versus not. If you decide to keep working for
your start up or not. So you can write contracts around
these sort of known and unknowns and address these kinds of uncertainties. That found we have unknown unknowns,
things we don't know we don't know. And those are some of
the examples I gave you earlier. What if somebody has a family and
decides to leave your organization? What if the direction of your
company changes radically? What if a natural disaster occurs? All of these things can radically change
the direction of your company and yet, they're not taken into account if
you simply divide equity evenly. So you need to think about all three
categories of knowledge, known knowns, facts, known unknowns, uncertainties and
unknown unknowns that are risks. So these three categories of
knowledge are actually very important when you create a founding agreement. If you want to know the details of
a nitty gritty equity division, professor Karl Ulrich has a talk
on that that you can also view. But I want you to think about the terms
that go into a founding agreement and the ways that you're going to
divide founding responsibilities. So first you want to think
about your knowns knowns. These are the facts and
again, in our mini example, this is the $10,000 everyone put in, the
fact they all generated the idea together. These you deal with standard
provisions in a contract. So everyone gets 5%
equity in your company, because they all played an equal
role in coming up with the idea. Then you have known unknowns,
these are those uncertainties. Are people going to leave their
job to join your company? Are you going to raise fundraising from
the brother of one of the founders you're bringing in for that reason? You can address this through that
we call contingent provisions. The most famous contingent
provision is vesting. So vesting suggest that everyone is given
a certain amount of equity that they're entitle to earn, say 20% of the company. But with that vesting
only happens overtime. So there might be cliff vesting, which
means that at the end of time period, say the first year, you automatically get,
if you're still with the company, a quarter of the shares that you're owed,. And then every month, there might be additional shares
allocated to you at that point. But you can actually make more
sophisticated sets of vesting agreements. So you could have differential vesting. So if somebody is working full-time at the
company, they earn equity at a faster rate than someone who ends up deciding to
stay at their full-time organization and just work for you night and weekends. You can also write contingent provisions
around the first person to bring us a investment source that we all agree to
use yet an additional 3 or 4% equity. So you can actually have milestones, and
those milestones can trigger equity or cash payment. So those are contiguous revisions that'll
let you deal with known unknowns. These uncertainties that you
know about in advance, but you don't know how they're
going to play out. So how deal with unknown unknowns? These sort of existential risks
the companies that somebody gets sick or has a family member that falls ill or
the direction of the company changes. Well, there's two potential
ways of dealing with this. The first sounds cheesy, but it's incredibly important which is
building trust among team members. If you are not regularly talking with
the other members of your team about your underlying feelings about the
company, your concerns and your worries, if you're sweeping that stuff under
the carpet, you are in a lot of danger. Because when things change, all of those implicit agreements
between people fall apart. So you need to build trust by continually
talking about how you feel about your organization, how things are going,
and being open and honest. You also can create what
we call unequal equality, which I referenced in a prior video. Unequal equality is about giving, even though you might have equal
divisions of labor between people, you might give somebody decision
rights in the event of a crisis. So if there's a crisis involving
the product and the technology, the CTO gets the final decision regardless
of what the other founders say. Or if it's a decision about whether or not
to sell the company or take on investment, the CEO gets the final decision
regardless of what everybody else says. So this cuts through some of
the issues around management and it could be built into
a founders' agreement as well. So you need to think about these issues
about how you're dividing equity, how you're dividing management responsibility,
and these are important sets of concerns. And using that known known, known unknown, and unknown unknown
framework can really help you do that. And again,
these are not blindly theoretical issues. So this is from some work by Noam
Wasserman looking at the various, outcomes for startups over time depending on the
decisions they make and company founding. And what you'll see here is a chart, and a
plus on the chart indicates the company's chance of survival relative
to the baseline is increased. So the company's more likely to survive
and minus means less likely to survive, and a blank space means there's
no difference in survival rates. And what you can see is over 6 month,
12 month and 18 month, and 24 month time span, what impact various choices have
on the chance of the company surviving. So if everyone in the founder team invests
the same amount of money in the startup, then that increases the chance
of the company surviving, why? Because everyone has
equal skin in the game. So everyone has put the same amount
of cash in among the founding team. The company is more likely to survive, because people feel like everyone
else is playing an important role. Heterogeneous experience, so that's that diverse background that I
referred to in prior to discussions. A diverse background makes your
company more innovative, but it also makes it more
likely to fall apart. And you can see that fact here, so
in the first 12 months, having a diverse background in your company increases
the chance of a company failing. But after that, once you've learned to work together
that disadvantage disappears. So the cost of being more innovative
is that the company's chance of failure increased the first 12 months. But then after that you're
still more innovative and that failure disadvantage disappears. Equal equity split among the founding team
members increases the chance of survival of your company over the entire
timeframe of the company. So if you're just blindly
dividing equity equally, that is generally advantageous
until something happens in the company that it forces you to
actually view the company's value as real. So when you're dividing equity just among
your team and sitting back In your local coffee shop to do that, then the money
that's involved in the company isn't real money, it's play money, you're sort of
dividing equity for a theoretical money. But as soon as you raise around a funds or go through some other event that makes
that valuation of your company real, so it's gone from being we could change the
world to your company's worth $6 million. That fact that you now have
to deal with the reality of the value of your company actually
creates a huge disadvantage for those people who have just
divided equity blindly evenly. And the reason for
that is it's very rare for people to actually divide the work evenly. So let's say you've split equity
with your partner 50, 50. And it turns out you're working many
more hours than your partner is, and your partner's not really contributing. You might be resentful of that, but while
there's no actual value of the company, you're likely to sweep
that stuff under the rug, if you're not having
regular conversations. But as soon as you raise
a round of funds and you realize your partner's
share is worth $3 million, same as yours that cause a resentment can
actually kill companies at a huge rate. And sometimes even bench or capitalist who want to push out
non performing team members. So the advantage of equally splitting
equity becomes disadvantages soon as you raise around the capital. So blind equity splits that's sort of
just even are generally a bad idea. Now we talked about the relationships
in previous discussion, and here you can see one of
those relationship issues. So friends, having raised a company and starting a company with friends
is not actually advantageous or disadvantageous for company survival
generally unless you split equity evenly. So you and your friends split equity 50,
50 in your company. In that case, for the first six months, the chance of the company
falling apart increases. And I think the reason for that is exactly what we talked about
before which was, you have a friend. Friendship is important here. You split equity evenly, which means that you're not spending a lot
of time thinking about who does what. One of you does more work than the other, that cause a resentment
in the other friends. And I have to make a choice between,
do I want to resent and be angry at my friend or do I want and
make the business succeed, or do I want to dissolve the business
to save the friendship? And what you see is that that's
the negative in the first six months. If you're going to work through that and if you could find a way to work together
then that disadvantage disappears. So your company survival
depends on the set of choices that you are making as a founding team. And again, an equal equity splits
is not necessarily the way to go. Just dividing equity equal at
the beginning doesn't make a lot of sense, because it decrease the chance your
company is surviving in the long term. However, you might think that that's
the normal way things happen, but this is not the case. So again, looking at some surveys and this
again backed up a more recent data as well of company founders in technology,
companies in biotech companies, even equity splits among founders
is actually not the majority case. Most people divide equity unevenly. So you should feel free to think about
this issue and think about equity division in a serious and deep way, and not just
divide equity blindly between people. So what's my fellow advice to you when
you figure out your founding agreement? You need to think about the known knowns,
known unknowns and unknown unknowns, and take into account all three of those
when you're launching your startup. Your choices and your founding
team have huge consequences for the later development of your company. So thinking about those founding team
issues and spending time early on matters a huge amount, and
you shouldn't just go with what's easy. So the easiest thing to do is not have
discussions and blindly split equity. You need to have serious conversations
early on because if you don't have them early on, they're going to
come back to haunt you later. So think about your founding
teams a serious way. It's one of the most important things
you can do to be successful as an entrepreneur.