So I've talked about why the founding team
is so important but another issue you need to think about is your first employees in
a company, and those are just as critical as getting founding team issues together,
in a variety of different ways. So there's something known as Thiel's law,
which is named after Peter Thiel, the famous angel investor, and he said, a startup messed up at
its foundation cannot be fixed. And years of evidence and research and
entrepreneurship have found this to be true, so the founding issues you
start up matter a huge amount. It creates form imprinting
we actually have evidence that organizations that are 300 years old
Still have the same basic structure that were set up in their
founding days as a company. So it's really fascinating, really important to get this stuff
kind of right early on because if you fail to put the time in at the beginning
you're going to pay for it later. And early hires are especially
important for three main reasons. First of all, just as a practical sense, these are the people you're
going to be working with every day. So you want to be able
to get along with them, you don't want to feel resentment for
them. You want to have an organization
that's more than the sum of its parts. The second issue is to realize that
performance differences between employees is huge. So trying to get it right and get the right form board will make
a big impact in your company. And then finally, there's this issue
of role inertia which I'll discuss, but it makes a huge difference who you
hire and what their roles are because that might fix the roles in your company for
all time. So let's talk about this
performance difference issue first. So we actually have a lot of evidence
that talks about performance differences between people in organizations. And probably, the most famous are for
technical people, for programmers. And I'm actually reproducing
here some charts of attempts to measure programming ability. And what you'll see there is the dots
represent a billion various sets of tasks. And you'll see this green box that
represents the 75th percentile, the averages. What's interesting to note is the repeated
studies found things like the differences between the programmers in
the top 75th percentile and those in the bottom 25th percentile, can be as
much as 27 times points at some measures. Now, a 27 times performance difference is
huge, we don't find that in all cases. Sometimes it's ten times,
sometimes it's three times, but getting a good programmer on board
versus getting a mediocre programmer can actually make a huge difference
in the productivity of your company. The amount of errors you spot, and if one
person can be as good as three or four or five less-well-talented individuals. Getting the high talent people on board is
critical to making things successful and it's not just about
technical like programming. So I have done a set of research looking
at the video game industry, trying to understand what explains performance
differences between video games. So let me walk you through how
I thought about this issue. So let's imagine a bunch
of different games and those games have different
levels of revenue. So some games are earning
more than others, some games are more
successful than others. Now I'm a game player myself,
so I controlled for all the sets of factors that makes
games different from each other, the genre of the game,
how much money went into developing them, what platform they're on, a whole bunch of
other factors, what type of game it was. And there are still,
even after you control for these factors,
big performance differences. So if you think of
a conventional strategy, an entrepreneurial strategy that tells
you the difference in companies and performance often comes
from the company itself. So let's take a look at companies and
imagine company green, company blue, and company purple are all different
video game developers and what you can see is you can
start to tell a pattern. Well, it looks like green's
production's going down, purple's doing well, so this looks
at things only at a company level. I thought well what if we
look at the individuals, the actual people who make these games. And specifically let's look at two
different roles within the game industry. Let's look at the middle manager role. So in this case a middle manager
is what's called a Producer. So these are people who help coordinate
things, help run schedules, coordinate between a senior manager and lower
level people within the organization. And what you can see is that
middle managers might move between different games in the organization. They might do similar games for
similar companies or move from one company to another. And then there's also a creative
role in the organization. And I apologize that I've used pictures
from the Black Eyed Peas album cover to represent creative individuals
that I make no statement about the Black Eye Peas's level of creativity. But it is nice pixel art, so
on the innovator side, we have the people who we call the designers of the game,
so these are the people that are doing creative work, and coming up with
creative ideas inside the organization. And so, I'm able to statistically pull
apart what part of the difference in revenue in a game is due to the game
itself and the company that produces it, how much is due to the middle
manager who's on the project and how much is due to
the designer on the project. And what I found was,
I think, interesting. So, 21% of the variation in
performance of games, products, was explained by who the company was, 22%
was explained by who the middle manager was and barely significant was
the design art which was about 7%. So, what this tells you is that
even in a really creative industry, with lots of variation like video games,
who the middle manager is matters a lot. They can explain 22% of
the variation in for performance and these are billion dollar
products sometimes. So 22%, $220 million,
in whether a game succeeds or fails can be attributed to
these middle manager roles. So getting your middle manager right, and I've found that they actually
take their skills with them. So when they move from
one company to another, they actually take that ability with them. So, figuring out not just
who the designers are, who the programmers are in your company,
but actually hiring the right early managers makes a huge difference in
the long term outcome of your company. So you need to think about these sets
of issues and we talk about hiring in other places during this course, but
it's worth thinking about these issues and realizing getting this
stuff right matters. It doesn't just matter because
people differ in productivity and often differs because of
what we call Role Inertia. Imagine a founding team member and you're
trying to decide who you're going to hire to fill an absolutely critical role
in your company, which is Human Resources. Who's going to be the head
of HR in your company? Now HR can mean many different things. An HR person can handle just recruiting,
so getting people into your organization and
hiring them. They can handle the administration, they can handle the legal
aspects of the company. So that you might have a HR person who's
a lawyer and deals with employment law. So let's imagine that
you've hired somebody for this role and it's an HR person who
does not handle the legal issues, so your company starts to grow, and
this HR person does a great job. They grow this company with you, they do a great job at recruiting which is
what they specialize in, and you end up having to hire a lawyer to handle the
legal aspects of the Human Resources job. Now, after a while, you end up, your HR
person decides to leave the company, and now you need to hire someone
to fill that HR role. What you've now done is, because that
HR person has left and because they had a particular set of skills,
you built the role around these skills. So now you can't hire an HR person who
does the legal aspects of your company because you hired a lawyer to do that. So it will be overlapped in
the roles in your company. So you're now limited only
to HR people who don't handle the legal aspects of your company,
this is what we call role inertia. By leaving after you've built
the company around this person they have left a hole in your company that's just
the shape of what their skill set was and that means from now on you have to
hire people to fit that skill set. So it's very hard to change
an organization's structure in hiring. The choices you make when you're
first hiring your first 20 employees actually dictate how your entire
company is organized in the future. So, you need to think about the roles and
design your company around these sets of roles so you're not just hiring
a person for the job, but you're hiring a person to help
create a job for the future. So another reason why early
employees are so important. So when you make your
first hiring decision, it's very important that you hire slow and
you fire fast. So before a role gets set,
if somebody's not working, get rid of them and
spend your time doing hiring right and not just hiring random people
because you need bodies right now. There's often a lot of pressure in
startups to staff up as early as you can and get people into your
organization as quickly as you can because there's a lot of jobs to do. And this can be a mistake, because if you're not thinking about
the issue is the productivity difference. And you're not thinking about the role
inertia that you're creating. You could end up making choices
that will haunt you later on. So, generally in hiring,
good enough isn't, right? So, if something's good enough that's
not the standard you want to use. You need people who are excellent. You need to think about the roles that
you're doing and you need to design carefully to make sure that the choices
you make early on don't haunt you forever.