It's time to talk pitch decks
and executive summaries. Now, I want to tell you an important caveat
before we got going, which is what I'm
telling you right now. In 2018, is the way
current pitch decks are structured and the way
you currently pitch to a venture
capitalist or funder. Five years from now, it
may be very different. When I was launching
my company 15 years, 10 years ago, instead of sending our pitch decks we would send out a 100 page business plans. So in 10 years, you might be sending
out singing telegram, a virtual reality experience, some other method of doing this. So there's nothing about pitch decks in particular
and executive summaries in particular that are universal or will
always last forever. These are just a wave right
now, a business described, and there may be future ways
business described, and future ways that are
very different from this. So given that caveat, let's talk about what you do
today to pitch your idea. So as you learn in
our prior lecture, for introductions you want
to have an elevator pitch, that's a critical part of
your pitching toolkit. But when you actually
get in front of an investor and they ask you to send them
more information, you will send them one
of two things: A 10-12 slide deck which
I'll go through in detail and the executive summary. The executive summary is usually two pages of material that summarizes the job from
your pitch deck and describes your business
idea in very clear terms. The evidence that why
it works and the same other material that you'll see in the pitch deck
that will describe. So for emailing out, for sending as a contact, if you want a pitch deck
and an executive summary. That pitch deck will be fairly dense because it's
designed to be sent, so the slides will
have lots of details. But it's essentially
the same pitch deck that you'll be presenting live, just a few more
words written on it. So what are those 10-12 slides. I'm going to walk you through the traditional 10 slides
of pitch deck. Again, this is
socially constructed. If you are watching this in a country other than
the United States, if you're watching
this eight years from now, this format of this deck
might look very different. You can decide looking at the evidence out
there whether you want to use this approach
or another approach, but this is the common approach
that's used today. The first slide you'll
be presenting is an overview or hook slide. An overview slide is one
that lays out all of the details of your business idea much like an executive
summary will do. This is primarily
used when you're sending out your
slide deck by email. If you're going to be presenting your slide deck in person, you'll usually use
a hook instead. A hook is something you intrigued people
about your product. So you can see an example
of a hook slide up there. What's the most commonly
used language in the world? Broken English. It's intriguing, it's interesting,
the pictures are interesting. This is often where
you'll tell your story about your business. But it's where you set up
the idea that you'll then develop further on as your
pitch deck continuous. So some overview or
hook, a personal story, an amazing fact, something interesting to intrigue
people about your product. Next, to introduce the problem. The problem slide tells people about what issue you're
going to be addressing. There are many problems
in the world and your customers might have
many potential problems. The problem slide
is your chance to focus your listener or your potential investor on the problems that you're
actually interested in solving, and that your product solves
better than other people. So there might be problems that your
product doesn't solve, you won't bring those up here. You're going to bring
up the problems that you're actually going to address. Here's some examples of
various problem slides. So one example is simple statistics that show
you how common a problem is. Another is this example
of the problem slide, 500,000 people take or pick
nursing exam every year, 50% of people fail at
the first time around. That's a really great
burning problem. In the bottom right,
you can see an example from a real estate
start-up showing you how complicated
the current world of real estate is with
all of these issues. So the problem slide sets up the problem that
you're going to solve. The next slide is your solution. This is where you first
introduce your product, and this is where
you're going to show how you solve a problem. So once we introduce our
procedure test-taking software, a 100% of people pass the nursing exam where
only 50% passed before. When we introduce our product, look at how well we solve
in the bottom right corner the issue of
real estate transaction and make it so much easier. In the upper left, you
can see an example of a physical product, and look at how great
our solution works. So this is where
introducing solution, the solution is tied to
the problem that we're doing and directly
relate the two. Then the last, the most
critical first four slides is your technology
or magic slide. The magic slide is a slide
that shows you why you have a competitive advantage over anyone else in
this particular space. So there's lots of
potential examples here of competitive and technology
and magic slides. This is a great time
to show traction. So you can show how your product actually has faster traction, faster pickup than anyone else. So we talked about
traction earlier that people are actually
adopting your technology. You would show examples of your technology actually works. You could show some other
example about why you have competitive advantage
over other people. Next, do a market sizing slide. The market sizing slide
is usually a top-up, top-down or bottom-up
slides, sometimes it's both. Here, you're going to
show that you have addressable market usually
at least a billion dollars. If you can, you'll
show something like your total Customer
Acquisition Costs, your CAC, and your customer
Life Time Value, LTV. If your Life Time Value
is better in your Customer Acquisition Costs, then you're in really good shape. The upper-right corner
that you can see it's actually
the original AirB&B, Backwaters call Airbed and Breakfast pitch deck where
you can see they showed you how big the market is for AirB&B and showed you some of the initial economics
from an industry. So the idea of
your market sizing slide is to show that
your market is attractive and will be large enough to be of interest to
potential investor. The next slide is usually
your competition slide. There are really two common ways
to show competition. The first of those
is to have a chart, and a chart like this, chart from the original
Dropbox pitch deck that you would see
in the upper left. We'll show a variety
of potential features, our competitive advantages
that your product might have. It might be faster,
it might be cheaper, it might be easier to use, and you'll show
all green check marks for your product and a mix of green and red check marks
for other products that are your competitors to
show that you satisfy all these needs that your customers have and
then other people don't. Now, notice that
these needs need to line up with what
you've introduced in the problem solution slide. So there are many ways
your product might compete with other people, and your competitors are probably better than
you at some dimensions. Maybe they have better
customer service. Maybe they have more colors
that you can pick from. Maybe their tastier. But what you've done in
your problem slide is help set the ground
for the competition so that it matches the kinds of
things that you excel at. You're going to tell people
that the problem isn't an issue of taste or
customer service or color, the problem is about
speed and about cost, which are the things
you excel in. So you're taking
those themes for product and solution and you're moving
those through the competition. The other way to do this is to pick two dimensions
of competition, say, speed and cost, and then show a pseudo graph
where your company is in the upper right corner because you're the only people
who have the fastest and cheapest and everybody else is somewhere else. So the competition
slide helps show why you're beating
your competition. It's important to include as many competitors
as possible because your investors will certainly know if
you're leaving out competition and it
will look suspicious. So you want to take
your competition head-on and show why you'll
be able to beat them. The next slide is you
go to market slide. This is going to show how you're competing with other
customers in the space. What's your customer
acquisition strategy? If you have tractions and another great time
to show a traction and to show that you
actually have customers who are buying your
product already. In analyses of what slide investors spend
the most time on, the answer by far
is this team slide. The team slide is
the one where we see the most possible investor time, because they want
to see whether or not they are interested in
investing your product, and team is among
the most important factors in making that decision. So your team slide
will tertiary show hedged shots of
your company members, titles, and then something
about their achievements or why they're good at solving
a particular problem. Next off, projections. Your projections of financials. You generally don't want to
have a pure numerical slides. Some sort of graphs
showing your burn rate, your revenue over time, that shows an exponential
is really good here. Now, you will want to have more detailed financial models, those will come up in discussion, but there may not be
something that you talk about directly
in this slide. Then finally, roadmap,
milestones, and asks. So roadmap would typically show where you are currently and what you're going
to do in the future. Usually, you want to show roadmap for a year about a third
of the way through. Your roadmap may have
many milestones in the future, but you're going to show what
you're going to accomplish. You may also have an ask. What money you are
trying to raise? What you're trying to
accomplish out of this meeting? So you're summarizing things with either a roadmap
or an ask or both. So that is the 10 slides that you'll traditionally
used in a pitch. When you send them via email, they'll have a lot
of words in them. Face-to-face so use
the same 10 slides, but that might have
more graphics, less words so they're more
compelling to present. You'll also likely have some demonstration
of what you can do. The demo is traditionally done right around
the third or fourth slide. So usually around the magic
or solutions slide, you'll show the demo
of what you can do. Now, that demo can be
anything from a prototype, a video, an actual
walk-through of your product,
customer testimonials, but something to show that
your product is real, makes a huge difference in convincing people to
go with your idea. So the last piece of advice. When you're pitching,
make sure you know your audience in advance, so when you pitch to
them that you are making a connection with them and that you understand
their technology level. You're not talking
over their heads, but you're also not talking
to them to amateur level. Hook them quickly. Some sort
of an intro or hook, some sort of demo early
on is very powerful. You want to demonstrate and show what you can
do more than tell. So if you can show examples of your products,
show prototypes, show MVPs, very useful
to do that here. Be prepared for questions. Usually, this turns into a conversation when
you're doing a pitch, so you might not get
through many slides before you start having
divergent conversations. So you may want to have
extra slides prepared to allow you to go deeper
into other topics or have some other method of interrupting your flow and being able to get
back to it later.