Hi, I'm Lori Rosenkopf. I'm the vice dean and director of
the Wharton Undergraduate Division. And I'm also a professor of
management at the Wharton School. We're here today for
the entrepreneurship specialization and my guest is Joseph Ansanelli. He's a partner at Greylock Partners, a venture capital firm, and
he is a serial entrepreneur. Joseph as an entrepreneur, as well as,
an investor what would you have to say about the importance of venture
creation in economies in societies? >> I think that if you look actually
at where most of the job growth and new valuation in companies and
wealth creation that occurs. It's typically happening in
companies that are new companies. New companies are getting
started every single day, whether they be in the tech industry or
elsewhere. And so entrepreneurship as a driver of the
economy in the U.S. and around the world is probably one of the most important
sectors that we could be focused on. >> In your own personal experience,
how does that play out? How much have you contributed to
job growth or value creation alike? Do you set targets for that, or
try to measure, or quantify that at all? >> I mean, our business as a venture
capital firm is to invest money in early technology ideas and to drive significant increases
in return on that value. But as a byproduct of that, what happens is all these amazing
companies that get built. I mean,
ten years ago there was no Facebook, or Workday, or Palo Alto networks,
or LinkedIn. But now today, employees across
those four sets of companies, several tens of thousands of people, that's an amazing thing when you think
about a lot of these ideas are just a couple of people working in a coffee
shop, a garage, or their homes. Taking that initial, seed of an idea and
turning into these world renowned brands and companies and
places that people work today. >> Taking venture capital
money is expensive for entrepreneurs, and research shows
that they are willing to accept a discount to work with
a prestigious venture firm. Why are they choosing to do this rather
than choosing other sources of capital? >> I think that the top venture capital
firms, it's a lot more than just money. If it were just money, and there was no
additional value, then there would be no reason to, why take one dollar versus
another dollar, they would be the same. And I think that what you get in
working with top venture capital firms, or Greylock, or Sequoia, or
other top tier firm is that, you get the experience of
the individual partner. Who often times, has either
started a company themselves, or been an investor and seen amazing
companies and knows what success is. And it's someone that you can learn from,
and I think that the thing that makes entrepreneurship
hard is, you're often very alone. And so getting someone around the table
who can help you is incredibly valuable. And then the other thing is that we try to
help accelerate the growth of the company with, not only with experience of the
individual partner, or set up partners, that are the investors, but also the other
things around helping to recruit people. You spend a huge part of your time
as an entrepreneur trying to hire great people and build your team. From that first hire, to that hundredth
hire, to that thousandth hire, and we help a lot with that at all levels,
as well as with customers. You have an idea, you need to hire a team,
and then you need to have customers, and so helping to connect companies
with potential customers and help promote those companies is also
a lot of the value-add that we bring. >> How much do networks matter
to venture capital firms, to you as a VC, your networks,
your firm's networks, as opposed to the networks of
the entrepreneurs that you're supporting? >> I think that we always think about,
all of us, as individual partners, what are our individual networks? And, as we think about growing and
adding people to the partnership, it's one of the topics
we talk about a lot. Which is what's their network and
is it overlapping, or is it extending? And we try to find people that are
extending the network into places that we don't have a lot of connections or
of domain expertise and whatnot, and so, It is so much about people. It is about making those connections
between people, that having the right set of networks and people and
growing those and investing in them and making sure that they're vibrant
is a key part of our success. >> So, you're a serial entrepreneur. You've founded three successful companies. Are there particular qualities that you
believe are important for entrepreneurs? Do you have them yourself? Do you look for them as you're looking for
new opportunities to fund? >> I don't think there's one formula. So let me start there, and if you look
at successful entrepreneurs, there's all types, all backgrounds, ethnicity's,
ages, there's not one formula. Now there's probably
a formula that works well for me in terms of the type of people that
I like, to work with and invest in. Because I think that part of the process
of, you're an entrepreneur, and you're raising money, it's, again,
not just about the capital, but it's who that person is that
comes with that investment. You want to make sure that that
relationship is incredibly productive, it doesn't necessarily
have to be best friends. There are going to be times when
those discussions will be hard and uncomfortable, etc. But you want to make sure that
there's a base level of trust and understanding between you,
either as the investor or you as the entrepreneur,
between those two people. That there's just a very collaborative and
constructive relationship. So I'm looking for people that have a certain set of cultural
values that match a mirror of mine. They might have different view points
about how to do things, which is great. But someone that I know I can work with,
collaborate and trust. Because the journey of entrepreneurship
is never up into the right in a straight line, I think its just myth
and perception that it goes perfectly. But there are trials and tribulations
along the way and I am always looking for people to say when it gets tough how is
this person going to be to work with and that's a key thing I always look for. >> So you've mentored, advised many, many people over the course
of your career at this point. Let me ask you to look
in the other direction. Who were the best mentors or
advisers for you and what made them so? >> I've been very lucky,
that from very early on, literally when I graduated, that I started
to find, somewhat serendipitously, mentors, in various things. One person in particular is
a gentleman by the name of Bob Frick. Bob was on the board of a company I
started in 1997 called Connectify. And he had been the vice chairman and
CFO of Bank of America. And he was just this incredible mentor for me because he had just seen so
many different things. He'd been on venture capital of the bank,
he had seen expansion on the bank. He had seen,
gone through good times and bad times. And he was then at that point on the board
of several companies, large companies, he had been on the board of Lucas Film,
as well as many start ups, and he was just a great coach to me. And whenever I was going
through a difficult decision I would talk to him sometimes
literally for hours. And he would just always be asking me
questions, always asking me questions, he had a view, but
he was always working with me to help me think through the problem and help me
get to the answer i felt good about. And so i was very fortunate in terms
of having someone with that experience, business experiences and set life
experiences, that was really valuable. And then I've had mentors in
terms of technology mentors, when I first worked at a company called
Apple there was a guy name Steve Caps. Steve had was one of the original team
that did the Mac back in 1984, right, he wrote the Finder. And he taught me a ton about
product design, and UI design and something that,
not easily learn in a class perse. But to be able to learn from someone who
had you know done some of the seminal things in graphical user interfaces
was just a phenomenal experience. So I am always looking for
people like that that I can learn from. >> You've spent you career founding
firms and funding new ventures. What about bigger more established firms? Some people say that established
firms can be innovative. They call it entrepreneurship. They call it entrepreneurial management. Do you agree if so
what can they do or do you disagree? >> I think it is very hard for large companies to be as innovative
as an early stage startup. And It's challenging for so many reasons, it's not impossible,
it's definitely not impossible, but it usually requires
that the leadership of that larger company is ultimately
an entrepreneur at heart. Apple, is a great example, I mean,
world's most variable company, clearly is a place that is
very entrepreneurial right. Coming out with the iPod, the iPhone,
the iPad, I mean, these were brand new categories, huge massive markets
that were incredibly innovative. But it started because there was
leadership that believed in and invested in it. I think it's much harder for
most companies to do that just because of the stage and
state of the company. If you look at technology
companies in particular, the vast majority of innovation for large companies
comes by them acquiring companies. Because these startups are able to break
the rules and do things differently and have a different financial model that's
much more supportive of large investments. To do things that's just much harder to do
when you are a large established company publicly traded that is focusing
on your quarterly earnings. So it's not impossible, but I think that
true innovation usually happens with a small team with a dream,
and a vision, and a mission that no one's going to get in
their way and it's much easier to do that, without any of the rest of the shackles
of a large corporation are on you. >> Let's talk about outcomes for
these ventures. So the IPO is the holy grail, the great valuation, the going public,
all these thing are what are celebrated. Acquisition is not a bad outcome either, although you may see it a little
differently from your perch as a VC. >> Now a firm could,
also a venture could go bankrupt, or a venture could sort of
live in that nether world. So talk to us about that from
your perspective as a VC, but then also perhaps from
the perspective of an entrepreneur. >> I think, from an investor's standpoint,
obviously we're trying to get the best and biggest return
that we can get on an investment. And sometimes the right thing is for
a company to get acquired, there's no question about that. Either there's not enough sustainability
or market opportunity for them to be in independent
publicly traded company, because being public is
just a form of financing. You sell stock to the public and
they give you money, which you then invest in
the company to grow the company. The expectation when you're public is
that you'll continue that grow, so sometimes the company, just the market
opportunity, isn't large enough. And the best thing for the company
is to be part of something else, and that would be the same reason why
an entrepreneur would sell a company. Clearly, from a returns standpoint, the
larger and the higher evaluation a company can get, the better it is if you're the
venture investor, as well as, if you're the entrepreneur, obviously, because you
end up with a larger piece of the pie. That decision is a challenging one,
in that decision, should you sell or should you not, there are many
examples of people who sold company's, that said I should have never of done it. And there's people that had opportunity's
to sell the company's and didn't, and wish they had. [LAUGH] And it's very situational. And you sort of have to believe in
the long term potential of the company, whether you can build something that
is sustaining as a public entity. >> For this specialization,
we have viewers from all over the world. All of them haven't had the opportunity to
affiliate with a prominent university or a prominent company. What can they do to increase their
networks and their exposure? >> Well one, I think today we live in
a world that is unlike ever before, how interconnected we all
are electronically is just amazing. Today, you can get on LinkedIn, for
example, and you can search for someone who has a specific domain
experience or something, and you can reach out to them and
connect with them. And leveraging things like that to connect
with people and not being afraid and bashful, if you will, to do that. You're not going to get 100%
of the people to respond, but you just sometimes need a few. So leverage all these great
tools that are out there for connecting with people is the first thing. I think another thing that's amazing is
just simply how much content there is to consume. Today, whether it's like this or blogs and
medium and other sources of content. There's just so much rich content that you
can find and consume to teach yourself. Just be a student and be curious,
and learn, and listen, and read, it's a time like no other,
it's just phenomenal.