Hi, everyone. This lecture is on entrepreneurial exits,
and let me start with defining with
what an entrepreneurial exit is. An entrepreneurial exit is
some liquidity event for the stakeholders of
an entrepreneurial company. And these stakeholders are,
for example, the founders, the investors of the company. And an exit event is some form
of buyout of those shares that are held formerly by those
investors or those founders. And it's important because up until
that event of an entrepreneurial exit or liquidity event, there's a great deal of
illiquidity in the shares of the company. And so when I speak about liquidity or
exits, I'm talking very much about
thinks like buyout of shares, mergers and acquisitions,
initial public offerings. And of course the alternative to all
this is to remain in the status quo, that is private ownership of
the original shares by the founders and by the investors of the company. And why is this an important lecture or
topic worthy of our time? It's because shareholders ideally would
assemble a portfolio in their assets, some that are liquid,
some that are less liquid, with different profiles of returns and
time horizons. And so this becomes an important event for shareholders because it
offers some liquidity. And beyond just the cashing out of shares,
the form of exit that the entrepreneur can choose could have also strategic
effects, and I'll be speaking about those. And what I'm listing here in the graphic is the day in which Facebook
is actually going public. That's a big day for
Facebook because then the shareholders of Facebook are able to achieve
some liquidity on their shares, they can sell it to
anyone else in the world. Whereas before that event, there is
not a well worked out marketplace for the shares of Facebook in
a more public setting. Let me first talk about
one important channel, probably the most important channel for
many entrepreneurs. That is the concept of an acquisition or
a buyout. This is obviously the phenomenon of
what I'm showing here on the graphic, Oculus Rift being acquired by Facebook. And if you thought about the pros and
cons from the entrepreneurial standpoint of why you would want to do this, or what
would guide you to accept an acquisition offer rather than remain private or
pursue some other liquidity channel. You often think about things
like organizational synergy. So if you were Oculus Rift, maybe getting on the Facebook platform
automatically gives you credibility, automatically gives you a large
marketplace to sell your product. And will ultimately lead to faster
traction in which you could grow the pie much larger than in the alternative, if you were to try to remain organic and
grow your own growth. And so this logic of faster resource
acquisition, a plug and play if you will, that will hook in to the existing
assets of the acquiring company, is often one compelling reason
from the entrepreneur's standpoint to really try to be acquired
by a more established company. Now the other aspect or
the other pro of a buyout is that sometimes this could offer
shareholder liquidity much faster in a more clean way than any alternative. Here I'm talking about the phenomenon of
basically a buyout of all cash, rather than in shares of the parent company, but
what's important to note is that there's tremendous amount of heterogeneity in the
way that these deals are often structured. And so it's important to be mindful
of the spectrum of alternatives that is ranging from on the one hand all
cash buyout, all the way to the other end of the spectrum,
all shares of the parent company. And of course you can have
any points in between. The big con to an acquisition type
setting from the entrepreneur standpoint is clearly that you would
lose control, or possibly lose control. You don't own 100% of the company, maybe you now own a small
fraction of the company. As a result, you don't have
the authority to really control the fine grain decisions that you may need, or
to execute to your particular vision. The alternative to a buyout
is initial public offering. And let me talk about the pros and cons from the entrepreneur's standpoint
of this particular exit mode. So one clearer set of pros is
that oftentimes this could be a name plate or
credentialing type of activity. Not all companies are able to go public. And so if you thought about visibility or
brand building, going public on a major exchange
around the world clearly signals to the outside world that you have arrived,
that you meet some minimum threshold, and consequently will automatically hopefully
give you some credentialing or visibility. Another big aspect here that could
make it attractive to pursue this particular route is that it could
be a currency for acquisitions. So if Facebook goes public rather
than being bought out, then all of a sudden it has shares and it could
try to acquire companies like Instagram, Oculus Rift, what have you, with not
just cash but also with Facebook stock. And another element of this, similar
to what we talked about in the buyouts, is sometimes you can achieve
shareholder liquidity. Now if you are a large shareholder
like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, there's going to be some constraints
as to how much you could sell Facebook stock on the open market and
that's regulated. The reason being that if you're
such a large shareholder, you're not allowed to
unleash all of your shares. There's going to be lock up periods,
etc., etc. But by and large, you're able to cash
out some fraction of your ownership for much liquid cash earn outs with this form of liquidity since
your just trading on the public markets. Now if you think about some of the cons
associated with initial public offering, a couple come to mind. So first, the public markets are in
constant flux and it's really difficult or notoriously difficult to time the market. You don't know exactly when would be
the most fertile period to enter or to sell shares of your company
in the open marketplace. And compounding that, there's no objective
thresholds in which there are some tests which suggest now you
are ready to be a public company. It's a situation in which
the investment bankers and financial community try to gauge
demand for a stock over time and they're trying to,
as in all financial transactions here, discover the price, given this and
equilibrate supply and demand. The other aspect of this, of the cons,
is that there's this notion of costs. And those costs can be both direct and
indirect. The direct costs are that you have
to pay typically 7% of your offering to the investment bankers. There's also lawyer fees involved,
marketing costs and the like. Those would be the direct costs. The indirect cost is that as
the founder or CEO of your company, you're probably spending less time on
product development and more time, as you try to ramp up to selling shares to
the public, on promoting your shares. And so those things in terms
of managerial attention can impose an indirect cost in terms of using this channel of achieving liquidity
through initial public offerings. Now here are two very interesting quotes
that I think are quite illustrative of the type of dynamics that can go
on with the initial public offering. The first quote here is by
the founder of Netflix. And what he's pointing out in this
quote is that when you go public, you also have a responsibility to
disclose a lot of information, both on a quarterly basis and
on an annual basis. That's required, at least in
the United States, by the regulators. Here in the United States it's
the Securities and Exchange Commission. And that information that's
disclosed can have implications for your competitive position. In this case, the competitors of Netflix
could really see how well Netflix is doing, and
that in itself could incur competition. The second quote of what I'm showing here,
with regard to public offerings, is that there could be a tremendous amount
of pressure internal to the company, in this case Google,
as they are thinking about going public. Because the shareholders,
in this case the employees and key executives who hold
the shares of Google, are quite anxious to get some liquidity
on their shares in the open market. Because they know that if the stock
does well in the marketplace, then they are able to convert their
previously illiquid assets and shares of Google into something that's
quite liquid that could then lead to all kinds of beach vacations and the like. Let me tell you a little bit about
the US public offering process. And some aspects of this process also
generalize to the rest of the world. And at the very high level,
these underwriters, these investment banks,
try to market the offering, the entrepreneurial company stock,
to various investor communities. These underwriters are usually
organized in a syndicate with a lead. So a syndicate is a group
of investment bankers. There's usually a lead that's
designated that will be staffed with really trying to take charge and
to lead the marketing of the offering. And there's a multi-faceted set of duties
that the lead underwriter takes on. And this an exchange for
the 7%, in the United States, direct cost of doing
an initial public offering. So there's a certain amount of due
diligence associated with the process. Duties associated with
marketing the offering, trying to understand possible
demand at different price points. Essentially, trying to discover
what the demand curve for the shares an offering might be
at various different prices. There's also responsibility for
compliance at the regulatory level, and disclosing all the different risks and
opportunities associated with a stock. Ultimately, the lead
underwriter is charged with determining the offering size, allocating
shares to the different investors, and ultimately pricing the offering. One very important aspect for entrepreneurs is a phenomenon
that's known as underpricing. And what is underpricing? It's typically the difference
between the price of a stock at the beginning of trading and the close of
that stock at the end of the trading day. To the extent that
there's a big difference, typically a run up in
the price of the stock, that value that's created to the holders,
the secondary holders of the stock, those gains are not realized by
the entrepreneurial company. And so rather than those gains accruing
to the entrepreneurial company, those gains accrue to the day traders or
the holders of the stock. That's a phenomenon known as underpricing. And underpricing, there's various theories
as to why underpricing takes place, but you'll note that underpricing is actually
detrimental to the entrepreneurial company because rather than capturing that
values to the entrepreneurial company, those gains go to the outside community. There's disagreement among
financial economists as to why underpricing takes place. One leading theory is that underpricing
takes place to reward the risk that these early investors take on as to the price
of the stock after it starts trading. The other duties of the underwriter
are to monitor the price and to offer price supports along the way. Let me tell you about a little bit of
research that I've actually conducted on this topic of entrepreneurial exits and
the relationship with innovation. The research question is, does it actually
matter from the entrepreneur's standpoint which exact liquidity mode or
exit mode you choose if you are looking to be
innovative in the future? Now what's often difficult here
is establishing a counterfactual. That is, if you conducted an IPO,
or initial public offering, you cannot almost by definition do
the thought experiment of what your innovative profile would have looked like
had you been acquired by another company. And so, what we tried to do in this study
is to really try to build a control group that tries to compare what if
Oculus Rift had decided to conduct its own initial public offering rather
than being acquired by Facebook? What would be the innovative profile
of these two alternate paths? And to get some insight
into that exact question, what we did was we built
a longitudinal data set in the biotechnology industry
of around 400 companies. Some of these companies completed
an IPO or a merger and acquisition. Others nearly completed one of these
events, and they did not complete these events for reasons unrelated to issues
to do with their innovative potential, but for market changing conditions,
regulatory reasons and the like. And so, we end up comparing
the profile of companies that nearly completed an IPO with
companies that actually completed an IPO. And just to summarize the key
findings of the study. We find, and again here, we're
measuring innovation through patenting, and that's an important clear marker in
the context of the biotechnology industry. We find that private ownership yields
the best outcomes in terms of innovation, with public ownership the worst,
and M&A is in between. And we have some theories as
to why we see these patterns. One leading theory is
that private ownership, you're operating In the veil of secrecy. You're not disclosing to
the public what you're doing. As a consequence,
you're not incurring competitive reaction, much like what we talked
about in the Netflix example. You're also, in addition to not being
focused on the near term, what results are you going to be presenting to the
shareholders next quarter or next year? You're shielded from those pressures, and
as a consequence one thing we know about innovation is that you need to be able
to have the freedom to experiment, and that is perhaps widely done or most
effectively done under private ownership. Public ownership has precisely
the opposite characteristics there, and perhaps M&A with some
middling type of profile. And so this is suggestive evidence
that not only should we think about liquidity and
exits in the form of the shareholders and what's happening inside
of your organization. But in terms of the strategic value of
the exit mode and what path you're placed on as a consequence of the exact
liquidity mode that you tried to achieve, may also have some implications for
your going forward profile as suggested in this more specific
study that I've outlined here. So to conclude this lecture on
entrepreneurial exits, two main takeaways. The first takeaway is that thinking about
liquidity is very important because the shareholders of the company, whether
they be your investors, your executives, your employees who own shares in your
company, are illiquid up until that point. And so, thinking about the exact
form of your liquidity mode, exit mode, is going to be
important from that perspective. Secondly, the other aspects
here is that the exact form of liquidity mode, whether that be
initial public offering versus a buyout, versus an acquisition,
will have implications. Not only at the level of strategy and
the incentives that are achieved or
imported in your organization, but it can have dramatic implications as
well on the type of behavior that likely ensues, including the innovative
profile of the company going forward.