Financing your startup is obviously
a very complicate topic, and as you've seen in many of
the other lectures and pieces of material that we provided in
this module there's a lot of complexity. What I want to do is give you a bit of an
overview of some of the issues associated with financing, and
especially the trade-offs among different types of financing and some of
the vocabulary used in financing startups. First to put things in
context a little bit. There's actually a really interesting
survey, called the Kauffman Firm Survey, that looks at startups across
a range of different areas, and asks where does the money come from for
startups? What I want to show you is
where the money comes for companies that are high tech, right? So most of the companies in the Kauffman
Firm Survey are not necessarily high growth startups. So they might be a restaurant, or a dry
cleaning business, and those are great businesses, but they're not as complicated
from an external financing standpoint. So in this case, let's look at where
high tech businesses come from and where they get their money from. And the first source of money is
probably not what you'd expect. The first source is on average, the money
comes from the founder themselves. So the founder equity in this survey is on average about
$46,000 of investment from the founder. And that could be their own sort of cash,
or it could be their cash plus their labor. And at this point, people start to expect things like seeing
VC on the list of friends and family, but actually the second biggest form of
financing is debt, which is at $41,000. And the third biggest is venture capital
or other forms of risk capital at $31,000. And finally, friends and
family, at about $10,600. So to just put this in context, VC and that risk capital raising is only
the third biggest source of financing. So why are we concentrating on this issue
so much in this module on venture capital, and angel investment, and
those sorts of risk capital? The reason is that this
is the average number. So very few firms, in this sample
around 2%, actually receive VC. And those that receive VC
receive millions of dollars. So if you need millions of dollars to make
your company work, venture capital or angel investing is the only
real way to make that happen, unless you have some very,
very wealthy friends and family. And in that case, it's worth spending some
time talking about those approaches and why they might be advantageous. So fundraising can often be
a complex subject, and it's not made easier by the fact that terminology
can often be complicated as well. So I'm going to give you some information
about how fundraising works, and this is how fundraising
works today in 2016. If you're watching this video in 2026,
there's a good chance that many of these numbers may have changed,
the terminology may have shifted, there are sort of fads and
fashions in these things. But I think this is a good way of sort
of getting an introduction to some of the ways in which we describe fundraising. So the most important thing to realize
about fundraising is startup fundraising is often thought of as
happening in rounds. Each round is a discreet
fundraising experience. So you go out and you find investors. Those one or more investors put money into
your company and then you close a round. And then you run the company for
a year, year and a half, however long until you have to
raise another fundraising round. So the rounds used to be simply labeled A,
B, C, with the first round being A, the second one being B,
third round being C, and so on. But what's happened is as the cost
of launches started to drop, there start to be additional rounds that are
happening before the A round even starts. So you might hear of something
called the friends and family round, or a pre-seed round. This is the earliest round
of fundraising in a company. Usually at this point,
you are just getting started and you're raising some amount
of money under $1 million. It could be as little as $50,000, $20,000,
it could be closer to $1 million, but you're raising it from people you know
from existing networks, from friends and family, that's the first
round of fundraising. If things go well, you may bring in the first professional
investors into your company. These can be angel investors or VCs, and
this is the seed round of investment where under $2 million investment
is coming into your company. If you're growing quickly and
you end up seeking venture capital, venture capital sources being
interested in the next rounds, which are again, the A round,
B round, and C round. So an A round is typically
around 6 to $8 million. A B round would be a larger round,
a C larger still, and so on. There are companies that have gotten D,
E, F, G rounds, but that is very rare and those are multi-billion dollar companies. So as a rule of thumb, and again, this can
be changed, each round you're going to give up somewhere between 10% and
40% of the equity in your company. So each time you go through a round, you're going to be diluting
your own share down. So it's to your advantage to go through
as little rounds as possible and to give away as little equity as possible. Usually the way this works is the first
rounds, especially the friend and family round,
uses something called convertible debt. And convertible debt is
a somewhat complicated topic. But just to give you
the basic introduction, in a convertible debt round what you
do is you're not setting a price for your company, instead you're issuing debt. And the trick is though that this debt
then converts into equity, into a percent of your company when you actually
raise a round of official financing. So it's a way of deferring a decision
about what your company's worth until a professional investor
gets involved in your company. And so, this has become a preferential way
of dealing with things like friends and family rounds when your company's
value is completely unclear. At this stage you issue convertible debt
and you push ahead the issue of wondering what your company's worth until
later on in your company's growth. Later rounds almost always
happen through equity. So people are buying
a percent of your company and you're issuing them special class
of stock, like preferred stock, in order to have that
investment be taken care of. But you should be aware there's many
different funding vehicles available, and they depend on the stage of the company
you're at, the industry area of interest, and even the sort of type of VCs that
are interested in your particular area. So I want to cover a little bit of some
of this menu of options for you, but it's a very complicated set of choices. There are a number of
major funding sources. This is just a small piece, but
I want to give you quickly an introduction to five different funding sources that
a lot of companies end up seeking out, especially in the high growth
sort of entrepreneurial space. So venture capital, which you've heard
about in some of the other discussions in this class, involves limited
partners who put money into a fund. That fund makes investments and startups. They're generally interested in
spending $2 million plus, round A or beyond, and
they add a bunch of stuff to your company. So, at least in theory,
they help provide guidance, governance, they connect your networks. So they can be very useful. These funds are often $100 million plus
funds, though there are smaller ones, and VCs make money by betting on
a portfolio of companies and hoping those companies have giant exits. So they want to see you earn 10 times or 30 times the valuation in the end that
you had when they put the money in. So they're looking for people for
swinging for the fences, and because they get 20% of
the profit that their fund makes. And they also get a small fee every
year that's about 2% of the funds that sustains the venture capitalists. The other traditional source of
funding has been angel investors. Angel investors are wealthy individuals
who put money into companies. They are generally very interested
in the seed stage because they can't put money in later
on into the organization. Usually we're talking investments in sort
of the $25,000 to $500,000 plus range. In some cases,
angels may add something to your company. So an angel investor may, for example, have network connections that are useful
to you, but that's not always the case. Angel investors could be anywhere from
a local wealthy entrepreneur to a network of doctors who co-invest together in
companies, to somebody who made a lot of money in finance and is now retired and
wants to invest in your organization. So there's a lot of different
angels out there, and they can range from individuals
to sort of large groups. And we have more of that in
the video on angel investing. There's also another class of
angel investors that have emerged fairly recently called super angels. Super angels are angel investors who are
very connected, usually in Silicon Valley, but there are other locations too. And they make lots of small
investments as individuals, and they often act as a signal of quality for
a company. So if a super angel,
a very well known angel investor, puts money into your company, venture
capitalists are more likely to look at it. Some of these people run small
funds of $10 to $70 million, or they may operate as individuals,
and again, they're looking to make money
when you exit your organization. Even more recently, we've had the birth
of what are called seat accelerators, or sometimes, seat incubators. Those sometimes mean different things. They're often used interchangeably, but an accelerator comes from the idea
that to make money from a startup, you want to invest as early as
possible in high potential startups. And if you wait until a startup
comes to you to look for money, it's already a little bit late
to get a lot of the company for relatively small amounts of cash. So the first accelerator was called
Y Combinator, started by Paul Graham. And the idea of these accelerators was why
don't we take people who have just basic ideas for companies,
haven't really built them yet, and get some of these really smart
people together in a room. Put them through a three month intense
experience that ends with them pitching their idea to investors. And we can mentor them and help them out, we can give them a small amount of funds,
and that way we have a chance to invest in these really early companies
before they're even underway. So this model's been very successful for
the top accelerator, so Y Combinator and Techstars as of the time of this recording
are examples of this, as is 500 startups. There's a couple others, but
there's hundreds of these accelerators, most of them don't seemed to
be that helpful for people. But if you can get into one, the high
status ones tend to be very good and connect you to lots of
other future funding. They usually take somewhere between 5 and
10% equity in your company. They give you 10 to $30 million. So that could be a very powerful approach. And then,
as we'll talk about in my next video, there's some information on crowdfunding. So crowdfunding is a way of
raising money from many people. It could anywhere from $100
to $1,000,000 or more, and we'll talk more about
that in future videos. So you have this very large list of
potential options available to you. Just a couple things on the major
decision, which is VC and angel investing. This shows you as of 2012, and the numbers have shifted somewhat as
of the time of the recording, but not that much, the number of investments
VCs versus angels make in various areas. Now, this data is not exactly matched. So if you don't see angel investors in
one area, or you see VCs in an area, or angels in an area, but no VCs, that
doesn't mean they don't make investments. I had to match two different
data sets together. But I think it gives you a general idea
of what's happening, which is where a VC investment is is in areas like software,
biotechnology, things like medical equipment and devices, consumer products
and services, energy and industrial. Those are areas where VCs are dominant. And angel investors are interested
in areas where VCs aren't, like retail and financial services. VCs generally want to see a company
that can scale very quickly, that can exit within five to ten
years at the very latest, and that can grow from a relatively
small base of people. So something like Uber or Google, where there's a small number of people
producing a product that's used by many. While something like opening
a set of retail stores, or opening a bank is something that angel
investors would tend to be interested in. So there is a lot to think about,
which industry or area you're in, how much dilution you
want to give up, who do you know? So, many of the other videos in this module of the course will cover some
of these issues in more detail. Just, again, as a current events update,
right now the cost of doing business in a startup, the cost of starting a company
has dropped hugely over the last 10 years. So there's some thought that
the difference in launching a web-based startup has dropped by about three
orders of magnitude since the late 90s. That means that you don't need a lot
of money to get a company going. And as a result the environment is
very friendly for getting funding for entrepreneurs, whether it's through VCs,
or angels, or seed incubators, or crowdfunding,
through that sort of early series A stage. After that, after series A, when only
VCs are really doing the funding, there's what's happening that's
called the series A crunch. So there's a lot of companies
getting funded in the seed rounds. There are relatively few companies
being funded in series A, and it's much harder for
startups to get past that area. So you have to be aware that it might
be easy to raise early funds, but it can often be very hard to get larger
stage multi-million dollar investments for growth in the United States. But the good thing for being
an entrepreneur is there's lots of flux happening right now, and there's
many new ways of getting investment. Your government may have
programs that help you with this. There's certainly new forms of
fundraising being invented. So this is an exciting area, but one
there's lots of change happening in, and I hope that these videos will
help guide you in the process.