I'm a Karl Ulrich,
I'm a professor at the Wharton School. This session is on pro
forma financial statements. The word pro forma is just Latin for
as a matter of form. And what it means is, it's a forecast
of future financial statements for your business prepared in
a fairly standard way, a way that people expect to see
financials for new ventures. The important point to note here is
that this is not an accounting of your actual financial performance. It's a projection of what you
believe will happen in the future. And they're called pro
forma financial statements. The analysis is generally done monthly. So, you analyse at the level of months,
and you do it, typically, for 36 months. In some businesses, it might go out for
five years or 60 months, but most of the business, most of
the statements that I see done these days, are done for three years or for 36 months. There are three standard forms in a set
of pro forma financial statements and they are the income statement, the cash
flow statement and the balance sheet. Now, let me just point out right
now that as an entrepreneur, you need to learn some accounting and
you're not going to learn it here. You need to take a course in accounting
if you haven't already done that. There's some very good courses
available for free online, including a great one offered by my
colleagues at the Wharton School. This is not a substitute for
an accounting course, but I want to talk about accounting in the context
of the pro forma financial statement. The other thing that usually goes with
a set of pro forma financial statements is a detailed budget for what you actually
plan to spend for the next 12 months. Investors usually want to see what exactly
are you planning to spend money on for the next 12 months,
because they're providing that capital they want to know how
you're going to spend it. So your pro forma financial statements are
usually accompanied by a 12 month budget. Now, the three statements, the income
statement, the cashflow statement, and the balance sheet are interrelated. And so, for instance, the income statement
is not the same as the cashflow statement. And the reason for that is that under accounting conventions,
income is not the same as cash. So for instance, if you have spent cash on inventory that shows up on the cash flow
statement but doesn't show up anywhere on the income statement because an inventory
transaction isn't related to income. So cash flow statement and
income statement are not the same because accounting the way we do accounting in
business, cash is not the same as income. Similarly, on the balance sheet, the balance sheet shows assets and
liabilities, not just cash. So it'll also show some things
like debt inventory, receivables, shareholder's equity, retained earnings,
a few other assets categories and liability categories that
are not shown elsewhere. So, we really need these three distinct
statements, the income statement, cash flow statement and
the balance sheets. These are also, as you probably know,
exactly the same statements that are used in reporting financial
performance of companies and in particular for public companies. Now the questions that
are answered by performance financial statements are these. What do I believe this business could
look like financially in the future? And the reason that's important is you
want to be able to show to yourself and to investors what the future prospects for
this business are. And so the pro forma financial
analysis says, hey, in year three, this business could have this revenue and
operate with this level of profit. And that informs the question of
might this be a good investment, might this company actually
be quite valuable someday? The second question
the statement's answer is what's the relationship between my
key performance indicators? That is the things that I
as a manager control, and the financial performance
of the organization. So for instance it might show
what's relationship between the number of retailers that I've
set up to sell my product, and the financial performance of the company. The third question that is answered
by the pro forma financial statements is how much cash do I need
before I reach breakeven? So effectively, how much cash is
required to support the negative cash flow associated with the early months or
years of starting up this business? And then the last question that's answered
by these statements is, is my operating plan, that is what I say I'm going to
go do over the next months and years, is that consistent with my financial plan,
and is it financially feasible? I want to give you, use and example to illustrated
the performer financial statements. I'm a founder and investor in a company called Belle-V
Kitchen that sells kitchen products. This is an example of
a bottle opener that we sell. And just for the sake of an example,
I'm going to imagine a company that's called
Carl's Openers, and we make two products. We make a bottle opener and
we also make a wine opener. So Carl's Openers has two products,
a bottle opener and a wine opener. And I want to show you what the pro forma
financial statements might look like for that business and
use it to underscore a few key points. First thing I want to say is that,
you the entrepreneur in preparing these financial statements,
start with the income statement. That's the place to start. So let's focus first on
the income statement. Now this is an example of
a monthly analysis for the first year of the business. And so you see, it's just got 12 columns
for the 12 months and then the last column is the annual total, which just sums up
across the rows, across the 12 months. This is usually where you start. And as you build the spreadsheet,
you will typically build, you will use 36 columns, which will be the
12 months for each of the next 3 years. And then you'll provide an annual
summary for each of those three years. Let's just look at what's
in the income statement. The top portion of the income
statement shows revenues and revenues are usually shown by
product line or by service line. So in this example of Carl's openers
I show we have two products, a bottle opener and a wine opener. And so it shows the revenues for each
of those two product lines separately. And then just sums them
up as our total revenues. The next category of items shown on the
income statement are the cost of goods, sometimes known as cost of sales. And sometimes referred to by
the acronym COGS which just refers to cost of goods sold or COGS. COGS are the costs that you
incur in direct proportion to the number of units you sell. And usually the COGS are what you
pay your supplier to provide you with the product that is what
is your cost of that product. Or what does it cost you to manufacture or
deliver the service that you're providing? Your actual costs associated with
delivering a unit of product or service. Those are your COGS or Cost of Goods Sold. And of course the difference
between the revenues and the cost of goods sold is
called your gross margin. That's the difference between
what you bring in, and the actual cost of providing that product,
that's the gross margin. The next category of items shown on the
income statement is referred to as SGNA, or sales general and administrative costs. And those are the things that
are required to operate your business that don't vary directly with sales. So typical examples there would be
administrative payroll, or rent, or insurance. Those are all things, utilities, that don't vary directly with
the quantity of product you sell. And they're called SGNA or
Sales General and Administrative Costs. If you take the revenues
minus Cost of Goods, that gives you gross margin, gross profit. If you subtract from that your SGNA,
you're left with what's called your EBITDA, which is earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization. You could think of this as your operating
income before you pay the costs of financing the business,
is basically the way to think about it. And for many businesses,
EBITDA is your actual earnings. For businesses that have a lot
of equipment or have debt, it isn't exactly the same
as your net income. Usually in your pro forma
financial statements, you will also show some
ratios as a percentage. For instance, it's usually,
most people want to see what is my gross profit percentage or
my gross margin percentage. And that's simply the ratio of
my gross profit to my revenues. And similarly, the other ratios
are calculated as shown here. The first point I want to make is to
think about how to build this model. And as I said at the beginning, I'm not
going to teach you enough about accounting that if you know nothing about accounting
you can build these financial statements. But after you've learned some accounting, I want to make this important point, which
is as you build the income statement, you shouldn't just type in to the income
statement a number for revenues. Rather, you should build a spreadsheet
model that calculates that revenue, based on some operating
parameters of the business. Let me give you a concrete example. Shown here in this spreadsheet,
I show revenue of $5,500 for bottle openers for the month of January. I shouldn't just type in 5,500, because
where does that number come from exactly? Instead what I should do is put in
some rows in that spreadsheet for, how many retailers do I
expect to have in January? How many openers do I expect
to sell per store in January? What's the average sales of
my product to that retailer? And then, I'll also have some rows for how many units do I expect to sell
directly to consumers, say on my website. What's my average direct selling price? And I can use those five
parameters to then calculate how, what my total revenues are for
bottle openers. So the difference here is that if I model
my spreadsheet using some parameters that I can better understand,
like how many retailers do I have? How many units do I expect
to sell per retailer, and what do I expect the average selling
price to that retailer to be? I have a more principle reason for
coming up with that number, 5,500. It's also much easier for
me to modify this model. It's also much clearer what
my assumptions are and it links financial performance to
the things that I as an entrepreneur can directly control,
like how many retailers do I have. You do a similar thing with the costs,
what's my factory price per unit. What's the freight per unit? What duties do I pay per unit? Enter those into your model to drive your
cost of goods rather than just putting a number there that maybe you
calculated on a scrap of paper. Now of course,
every business is different and every business will have a different
model that drives it's revenues. But you should think about for your business, what is the fundamental
logic for where my revenues come from? And create a spreadsheet model that
uses those parameters as your input. Not just a number that you calculate
on the back of an envelope and stick in the spreadsheet. One of the challenges in preparing
pro forma financial statements, is deciding which scenario you show. You of course know that
your future is uncertain. It's very difficult to predict
what your actual revenues or costs are going to be out in year three. And so you have the choice, when you're
preparing these models of showing a conservative scenario, or
showing a very aggressive scenario. Or maybe showing your
expected case scenario. And I'm just going to give you my sense
of current practice in entrepreneurship. I've been involved in 28 ventures. I've seen exactly three that have
exceeded their plans significantly. As a general rule in current practice,
entrepreneurs are optimistic. And they're optimistic in those scenarios. The net effect of that is
investors have come to expect that your financial statements
are a little bit aggressive. They are a little bit optimistic. And so, as a matter of practice, I believe that most entrepreneurs show
the 80th to 90th percentile outcome. That is that the scenario that is only
20% likely to play out in the future. That tends to be what's shown in
the proforma financial statements. Now that's not ideal,
I would much prefer that entrepreneurs and investors come to expect maybe
several scenarios that are articulated in the pro forma financial statements,
but it is the state of correct practice. Particularly, prior to
the launch of the product. Now of course as the business operates for some time, the numbers have to get
more and more realistic because investors start to look for,
is the management team hitting their plan? So once the business actually starts
to operate and generate some revenues, typically the pro forma financial
statements start to come much closer to what management truly believes is the
likely outcome for the next few periods. Let me also make an observation,
just a little hint. Which is I think it's bad form,
it's just bad practice as an entrepreneur, to make this statement,
well these are conservative assumptions. People seem to do it all the time they say
well we've modeled conservatively that we'll have two hundred
retailers in January. The reason I say that is that
they're never conservative. In most cases, they're optimistic. And so you're sort of revealing
you don't know what you're doing if you call them conservative scenarios. I find investors don't like to hear that. They want to see your scenario. Don't characterize it as conservative. It's probably optimistic. And investors expect it to
be a little optimistic. Let me just go through Some Best
Practices, again build your model using key revenue and cost drivers so
your assumptions are clear and so your logic is clear to where your
revenue and cost numbers come from. Start with the Income sheet. All right the income statement and then use that to drive the cash slow
statement and the balance sheet. Use detailed worksheets at a monthly
level to drive the summary sheets. Model your financials monthly
typically for 36 months and then provide an annual summary so
we can see the annual data. And then lastly although you probably want
to provide some summary financials in your business plan, or your pitch deck that
is shared with investors, you probably benefit from just providing the perform
of financials as a separate document. It's usually a PDF file
generated from a spreadsheet. Just provide that as a separate document, that's often the way
investors expect to see it. Lastly let me give you
some practical advice, you do need to know some accounting. And at a minimum you can
take an online course. As I said Wharton offers
a great one online. Just take the accounting course, because
you need to understand the language of business if you're going to
be an entrepreneur, and this isn't enough accounting to really
understand the language of business. You start by building
the income statement, and I would recommend that you,
the CEO, you the entrepreneur, build your own financial model,
particularly the income statement. I think it's important for
you to understand it. And understand it at quite detail level. So you should build it yourself. Having said that, getting the balance
sheet and the cashflow statement to work properly, to link those three
documents is a little tricky. If you aren't good at it,
if you haven't done it before, then I would engage a partner or consultant to
help you build out the full financials. There are some very good
templates available online. One of the template in
fact the one I used for that example comes from the non
profit called score and you can go to the score.org website
to download those spreadsheets. There are some paid services that will automatically generate financials
from a set of assumptions One of them that entrepreneurs I
know have used is called Live Plan. This isn't an endorsement of Live Plan, I'm just pointing out it's one of
the examples of those companies. Those can generate financials
automatically from some very user friends assumptions. In my experience, investors expect
to see a true spreadsheet model. And so I think you might use live plan
to help generate those spreadsheets but probably do need an actual Excel document. Or spreadsheet document that
contains your financials. And you might need to get
some help to do that. But I do think you the entrepreneur,
you the CEO, do need to create your own income
statement as a way to get started. Pro-forma financial statements,
they're sort of a necessary evil in entrepreneurship, but
I do think they're very important to help you really think through
the feasibility of your financial plan. And it's consistency with the operating
plan that you anticipate over the next months and years.