Equity financing is
a complicated topic and one with a lot of
facets associated with it. We'll today go over some of the details of how to think about equity financing and how it works and how diluted financing
works in general. So a term sheet is the offer you get from
a venture capitalist or other potential investor. You can see an example
of this here. You can download copies of this online and there's
open available term sheets. But we're going to
cover today some of the basic ideas of dilution
and preference etc. But there's a lot of terms in the term sheet, so
legal documents. So, I don't want
you to think that we're just discussing
everything here. So, I want to give you
the basics to understand this. But then, you'll need to go
in a lot more detail in order to understand the terms of the bigger term sheet
that's in front of you. So, let's walk through the details of how diluted
funding works. You'll notice this chart here, there's
actually two charts. The first chart is going to be telling you what percentage of ownership in the company
is owned by which people, and the bottom piece
is going to tell you on the funding side, how much the company is worth. So, let's imagine a startup
where there's two founders. Founder one gets
40 percent of the company, and founder to get
60 percent of the company. You can see that in
the upper left corner. The bottom left, you'll
see there's no value for the company because it's just
founded by these people. There's no money, it's
not worth anything yet. So the situation associated more complicated with the seed round. In the seed round, an investor is actually putting
money into the company. In this example, we have
an Angel investor who's putting two million dollars
into the company. So, suddenly the company
goes from just two people to a number of people and
number of investors involved. So, what happens when
the seed investment comes in? Well, first of all, now the company has to have
some sort of value. If I'm going to put
two million dollars into your company as an investment, that means that I need
to have an understanding what percentage of the company
I'm acquiring as a result. So, I need to know
how much your company's worth, what its valuation is and
there's a lecture and entirely about evaluation that goes into this in more detail. But I'm going to give you
the two million dollars, and I'm going to give it
to you at some valuation, and the results of the valuation plus
the money I give you, will be your
post-money valuation. So in this case, I'm
going to give you a two million dollars investment
as an angel investor, and assume your company's worth eight million
dollars in advance. That's what I've determined by my valuation method in this case, and that means your company's worth $10 million
post-investment. So, we call those elements
the investment, the pre-money value and
the post-money valuation. So, the amount I invest
two million dollars, plus the eight million dollars
pre-money valuation equals $10 million
post-money valuation. That's a very simple equation that will hold true
no matter what. So investment plus pre-money valuation equals
post-money valuation. So if I know that there's a $10 million
post-money valuation and eight million dollars
pre-money valuation, I know that there has been a two million dollars investment. Now, complicated things
somewhat is the fact that this angel investor wants you to create an option pool. Option pools, as you'll
see in other lectures, is our way of
compensating employees. I'm reserving a piece
of my company, I'll give out stock options in return for those employees works. In this case, I'm
going to create a 15 percent option pool which will be worth $1.5 million
post-money valuation. So, the angel investor wants the 15 percent of the company reserved after their investment. Now, the angel investor has a way of creating
an advantage out of this. It's called the
option pool shuffle. Even though that option pool
we ask to be worth 15 percent of the company
after the investment, so 15 percent post-money, they want you to create that pre-money before
they make an investment. That means all the
dilution that happens the founders from
the options being created, happens before the angel
investor invest in the company. So what does that mean for the effective valuation
of the company? So nothing changes about the two million
dollars investment, and nothing changes
about $10 million post-money valuation. What changed is there's an additional $1.5 million option
pool are being created. So, two million
dollars investment plus a 1.5 million option pool plus the pre-money valuation has to equal the
post-money valuation. So the post-money
valuation is $10 million. That means that the pre-money
valuation of the company is effectively $6.5 million
after the option pool. So by doing this
option pool shuffle, the investors have
effectively lowered the amount of the
pre-money valuation held by the founders. So, what that means is when the actual diluted ownership
is calculated, founder one has gone
down from owning 40 percent of the company to
26 percent of the company, and founder two has
gone down from owning 60 percent of the company to
39 percent of the company, and the angel now owns
20 percent the company. However, the shares that were worthless before
now owe something. So, founder one now has $2.6
million evaluation that they hold and founder two has $3.9 million
evaluation they hold. So, even though their
shares have been diluted, the valuation is increased. Now, let's consider
the same thing in an a round. In the case of the A Round, we are now receiving a five
million dollars investment, and the pre-money
valuation is $20 million. So five million plus
20 million equals 25 million post-money. So again, the equation
still works investment plus pre-money
equals post-money. Again in this case, we have
another option pool created, another 15 percent option pool, which is going to of $3.75 million in new options
being created. So, we'll do
the same thing we did in the series A Round
which means that the effective valuation
because the option pool is being created before
the investment comes in, is the five million
dollars investment plus the 3.75, new options. That means that the pre-money
effective valuation is $16.3 million in order to equal the $25 million
dollars post-money. Again, we have
a dilution happening. Founder one's share
dropped from 26 percent to 17 percent and founder two dropped to 39 percent
to 25 percent, and the angel investor gets
diluted to 13 percent. But see what happens again. Again in each case, the amount of actual dollar valuation that holding increases. So, even though
the percentage decreases, founder one goes from 2.6
million to 4.2 million and the other founder
other angel investors share of the actual
money increases as well. But what that means is that
in every round of investment, the value of the
company goes up by considerable amount in
this case by a 150 percent. But the value of the founders
doesn't go up as much because the founders are being diluted in each round. So even though the
company is worth a 150 percent more than it was before the founders and shares have only increased
by 62 percent. So, that's what happens in
each round of investment. The value held by the founders increases but by less than
the valuation of the company. So some important caveats here. So, in that first round
evaluation where it's just the founders there was that there's no friends
and family round. There's no convertible debt, which is something we talked
about in other lectures, and remember convertible debt is a loan that converts to equity, when you actually receive
funding and say the A-round and has a cap
and a discount rate. What does that mean?
A discount rate means that it's going
to buy equity in the seed round at a 20 percent discount
and there's some caps, so the valuation
in the next round can't be over $10 million. Otherwise, the friends and family a convertible debt round
will be worthless. Because if you end up having a huge amount success and the
company has a huge value, then the friend family investment only by very small amount
of the stock. A seed round, a few
things to caveat. So two million dollars is
a very large seed round. Usually a seed round is
going to be less than $1.5 Million and sometimes
much less than that, and what's missing here
is preferred shares. So oftentimes,
investors will ask for a different class of shares and the common stock
owned by the company. They are also not
asks you a pro-rata. Pro-rata rights is
the ability to make future investments in the company and to get the same rights
as future investors, and there's also no
convertible that. Sometimes angel investment
is done as convertible debt. Once we get to the series A-round as a few missing things. It's a very small A-round. There's only a single investor. Investors usually invest
in syndicates or with some multiple messages events at once and there's a bunch of
terms that would be missing. So, terms include
downround protection. So one of the worst
things that can happen to you as a founder
is that you have to raise capital at a lower valuation that
you raised in the past, because there's all sorts
of nasty things that trigger inside
term sheets that will force you to reprice your stock and get a lot of stock
to your early investors, so that's called down
round protection. There's lot of ways
of doing that. There's no control terms
in this discussion, so usually there's
a whole bunch of things to think about in terms of how the VC is going to maintain
control of the company. So usually, a venture capitals will take board seats
in the company. They might get
special voting rights and it may have the ability to fire you as a founder. So that is all important stuff
that happens in that A-round and there's no
liquidation preferences. So I want to explain how
liquidation preferences work briefly. A liquidation
preference is worth a couple seconds to explain
because it's very common and has a variety of important implications for
you as a potential founder. So there are two kinds of
liquidation preferences participating and
non-participating. I'll explain how they work. But what I want to show
you is a simple example of 50/50 equity split with a VC. So the VC owns 50 percent
of the company, you own 50 percent and there's a onetime liquidation preference. Liquidation preference with
two times a three times. In this case,
the venture capitalists made a two million
dollars investment, and they've got one time
liquidation preference. Which means they
have the right to take that two million
dollars out of your company before anybody else can touch any
of the returns. So, what that actually means, is that if you sell your company for
less than two million dollars, the VC gets all the money. If you sell the company for between two million dollars
and four million dollars. The VC will excise a
liquidation preference, and they'll take
a two million dollars because if you make less than four million dollars a 50/50 split is
less than two million, so the VC would be
better off taking the two million dollars than
splitting equity with you. If you sell your
company for more than four million in this example, the VC will not exercise their liquidation
preference and instead, they'll just split
the return with you 50/50. There are other
variations on this. So, VC's can choose a two times liquidation
preference, in this case, they will make $4 million before anyone who makes any money
or they can choose to have a participating and liquidation preference
which means they both get their
liquidation preference and they get the 50/50 split. The reason why VC's
do this as two-fold. One, is to offer some protection. So, if your company
only sells for a couple million dollars they
still get their money back. So it's a way of
getting some return. But even more perniciously with the VC is trying to do is
change your incentives. What you'll notice is that if it was a 50/50 split and you sold your company for two million dollars and you
made a million dollars, you'd be very happy, but
the VC would not be happy because they only make
a million dollars and they put
two million dollars in. So liquidation preference
is a way of changing your incentives so that you as an entrepreneur can't
make returns and less that you are going and
swinging for the fences. So it's way VC's for
motivating to motivate you to go for
very high returns and that's why liquidation preference exist and that's
why it terms like liquidation preferences
or participation are are very complicated,
I'm worth thinking about. Because it's not just
about legal terms and not just economic, but they're also
about changing the incentives of the entrepreneur. So, terms has to be
really complicated and there's a lot of
customary pieces in them. I rashly recommend
the book Venture Deals by Brad Feld & company. It's a really great run through Brad Feld and well-known VC have all the terms that exist in term sheets and if you
want a lot more detail, they're going to talk about here. You need to have a very
good lawyer to solve this. You can't just sign a term sheet without
getting a lawyer. So a lawyer who knows
term sheets will help you out a lot
in this process. But I hope you
understand that some of the basics of the complications of dilutive funding and
venture capital terms.