I'm Karl Ulrich,
I'm a Professor at the Wharton School. This session is on breakeven analysis. There are really two distinct uses of
the term breakeven in the context of entrepreneurship. The first, you might call breakeven time. It's also sometimes called payback time or
payback period. Essentially, it's how much calendar
time would be required for a lump sum investment to be recovered
from positive cash flow and I'll give you an example here in a minute. The second use of the term is
really breakeven quantity and this refers to how many units,
transactions, quantity of product, orders, customers must we experience per unit
time in order to cover our fixed costs? I'll go through both of
these with some examples. The second idea of breakeven quantity is also sometimes referred to by
the strange term, covering the nut. And that means, the nut is a term that
refers to what are my monthly fixed expenses and how much do I
have to sell to cover the nut? That is, to recover or pay for
my monthly fixed expenses. First, breakeven time or payback time or payback period and
let me just give you an example. Let's imagine that you're
considering converting all of your delivery trucks from
gasoline to compressed natural gas. Prices for compressed natural gas
are quite low right now, much lower even, than gasoline and so, if you convert to this alternative fuel
you can save monthly operating expenses. Let's imagine that buying a truck
costs $40,000 U.S. dollars and let's imagine you save $1,000 a month
in fuel costs by converting to CNG or compressed natural gas. Then put simply, the payback is 40 months. That's just 40,000 divided by
1,000 per month saving, so the breakeven time is 40 months, or
the payback period is 40 months. Now let me just say, this is most commonly
used in association with a lump sum, single investment that has some
future savings associated with it, it's actually not very commonly used
in other parts of entrepreneurship. You wouldn't normally see this in
the context of financing or discussion with an investor, it would be more used in
association with a lump sum investment. On the other hand,
this notion of breakeven quantity is commonly used in entrepreneurship,
and let me start by giving an example. I'm a founder and investor in
a company called Belle-V Kitchen, and we make a quite lovely
bottle opener shown here. Actually, I have one with me. Belle-V Kitchen makes
a bottle opener shown here. I want to just consider
the basic question of, how many of these would we have to
sell a month in order to breakeven? I want to start with the definition
we've used in this course for financial sustainability for
a company that sells things. The basic condition that's required for
financial sustainability is that the quantity sold times
the difference between the price and the cost of each unit has to exceed
the fixed costs of operating the business. Put simply, P minus C, or price minus
cost is the gross margin, that's how much you make on each unit of product and
the quantity sold is the quantity sold. The quantity sold times
your profit per unit, that must exceed the fixed cost
of operating the business. If you can achieve that, then you can
achieve financial sustainability for the business. In setting breakeven quantity, we simply
turn that around and ask the question, how many units would be required for
us to cover our fixed cost, F? That can be expressed by the expression,
quantity Q, breakeven quantity Q is equal to
the fixed cost per unit period F divided by the profit margin
per unit sold, or P minus C. Let me give you a numerical
example to make that clear. Let's imagine that it costs us $300,000
per year to operate the business. These are the costs that don't
vary with the quantity sold, this is things like rent, advertising, salaries we pay to the bookkeeper and
to the marketing person. Let's say that's $300,000 per year and let's imagine that we sell
these at a price of $25 and that they cost us $13.44 to make. That our breakeven quantity
would be 300,000 divided by the difference between $25,
our price, and 13.44, our cost. If you do that arithmetic,
it comes out to 25,952 units per year or more typically, it's expressed monthly,
so it'd be 2,163 units per month. The breakeven analysis simply says, we have to sell a little bit
more than 2,000 units per month, about 2,200 units per month in order to
cover the nut, in order to breakeven. Now if you don't sell a product and instead sell a service,
then with recurring revenues and recurring customers, then you think
about it just a little bit differently. I'm also an investor in a company called
Gridium that sells software to companies that manage commercial office buildings
and they sell it on a subscription basis. They have a couple of different
subscription plans but some of them cost $79 a month,
some of them cost $150 per month. It's essentially the same analysis but instead of asking how many transactions
do we need to have per month, you ask how many customers do
we have to have in our system, on our system, subscribing to our
service to cover the fixed cost? So, a very similar kind of analysis, I don't think you'll have
any trouble doing it. But I do want to point out that it's
a little bit different for recurring services like you see in software service
businesses or in other kinds of services. Now, there are some issues
in breakeven analysis. It's fairly useful as a way
to just test your intuition of how much business would we
really have to do to sustain a company of the size we're
imagining this business to be? It's good for calibrating your intuition
around the feasibility of a new business but it does assume a fixed
level of spending. It assumes that F, in fact, is fixed but
those costs aren't really fixed. Those costs are the results
of a managerial decision based on how big you think the company can
be, how much resource you think you're going to need over the coming months
in order to support that business. The breakeven calculations are probably
best framed as, if we were this size of an organization, if we made
this kind of commitment to rent and to payroll and to advertising, how many units
would we have to sell to cover the nut? How many units would we have to sell to
breakeven, to cover those fixed costs? It's sometimes useful
to do this analysis for what you can imagine to be the minimum
efficient scale for the business. What's the smallest we can imagine
this business being at and still running itself,
still being self-sufficient? Look at that set of fixed costs and answer the question,
how many units would we have to sell, how many customers would we have to
have to sustain a business of that size? And that can be a good test as to the
basic feasibility of the business model that you're envisioning.