My name is Karl Ulrich,
I'm a professor at the Wharton school. And this session is on
Equity Financing: Valuation. I want to start with a story. I'm an investor in a start
up called Wholly Moly! And Wholly Moly takes organically grown oatmeal sourced in
the United States and sells it in China where the Chinese consumer
is very concerned about food safety. Wholly Moly was started by a former
student of mine named Claire. Claire and her childhood friend,
Shui Shui, started this company. Now, Claire had been my student but
Claire and I had become friends. In fact, she had guided me around
China on two separate occasions. I actually introduced her to her
husband and I spoke at their wedding. So, I really consider
Claire to be a friend. Claire then asked me if I would be
interested in investing in Wholly Moly. And that caused our relationship
to take an entirely different turn because now we had to focus on business. So this image shows a dinner
we had in San Francisco with her two first investors me and Don. And we're shown here with Claire and
Shui Shui. And we're all smiling
here at this dinner but this was a pretty tense dinner because
we had to focus on the question of, if I invest my hard earned cash in your
business, what do I get in return? That's the essential question
we face in valuation, how do we decide what
the company is worth? Now value, as any real estate agent
will tell you, is simply defined as the price of a transaction between
a willing buyer and a willing seller. Value is what someone will pay for
something and usually in the context of entrepreneurship, the transaction is
between an investor who is providing cash and the entrepreneur who's giving
up a share in his or her company. So, that's the transaction
that defines value. And in any specific case, valuation or value of the company is
defined through a negotiation. It's basically a horse trade,
you and the other party are trying to agree on a price for
something that's very hard to quantify. Now, ideally the negotiated value would
reflect something about the fundamental cash flows that that business would
generate over a long time period. I mean that's after all what we care
about in determining financial value. But the problem is,
that we're trying to establish this value when there's a lot of uncertainty before
we've even really built the business. And so valuation, in this context, is really based
on some beliefs about the future, what we believe the business can be out in
the future, given all of that uncertainty. Why do you even need to establish
the value of a business or establish a valuation for your company? Well, you don't really ever need to do
it until you need to raise some money, until you need to sell some
portion of that company for cash. And that's usually in the context of the initial financing that's
required to get the business going. Now of course, once you're successful,
and once your business is established, you may be interested in selling that
business entirely to a third-party, and that's the other setting in which
you need to establish a value, set the valuation for the business. And to be even more precise the investor
is typically asking the question, if I invest a certain amount of money,
let's say $10,000 or a $100,000, what fraction of your
company do I get in exchange? That's the fundamental question
we're trying to establish, or trying to answer, with valuation. Before we get into the details I
want to review two terms, pre-money and post-money valuation. Pre-money valuation, which I'll call X, is the value of your business
before you take the investment. So, let's just say for
example that you establish a value for your business on a pre-money
basis of 1 million US dollars. Post money valuation is what your
business is worth after the investment. So, let's imagine that an investor
provides $100 thousand in capital. After the investment,
you have what you started with. The $1 million in company value plus
you have $100 thousand in the bank. And so your company must be worth
$1 million plus $100,000 or $1.1 million,
that's the post money valuation why? So, if we want to understand what
the investor owns after the investment, we think about the investor
providing $100,000 in cash divide that by the post
money valuation, or $1.1 million. And that fraction is one eleventh, and so the investor providing $100,000 on
a pre money valuation of $1 million. Results in the investor owning
one-eleventh of the company or about 9.1%. So again, pre-money valuation is what the
company is worth before the investment. Post-money valuation is simply
the pre-money valuation plus the value of the cash invested. And the ownership's stake of the investor is defined as the cash divided
by the post money valuation. I want to just point out that it's in everyone's interest
to estimate the value accurately. Some people might think, well gee, as the entrepreneur I'd like to have as
high a valuation as possible so that I give away as little of my company as
possible for the amount of cash invested. But that's not such a good idea
because if your valuation is too high then your investor won't
make a good return. That's not fair first of all, but it's
also not good for you and your reputation. The other thing is that if you
set your expectations too high, if you set in effect
a price that's too high for your company, you won't be able to attract
the investors of the type that you'd like. On the other hand,
if your valuation is too low. That's not good for you, of course, because you've given away
a lot of your company. But it's also not good for the investor
because it doesn't leave you with enough ownership that you have a strong
incentive to make the business a success. So, you and your investor both want this
estimate to be as accurate as possible. And that's really the reason to
treat this exercise quite seriously as you're thinking about raising money. There are four approaches that I've
used in establishing valuation and I want to just to through
those approaches. The first is,
that you can look at what the inputs cost. That is, what would it cost to
replicate what you've created to date? The second approach is, to compare your company to other similar
companies, and to other transactions, fund raising transactions,
those companies have entered into. The third approach is
that you can discount for time and risk from some
estimate of future value, and I'm going to go through each
of these with some examples. And then the fourth approach you could
take is you can apply a multiple to the actual earnings of the company,
either the earnings or the revenues. But remember, this is ultimately
a negotiation between you and an investor. And so you should think of these
approaches as just ways to calibrate your intuition to prepare you for
that negotiation. Most of the time in the transactions I've
been involved with, I've actually used at least two of these and
usually three of these different methods. In order to triangulate
on an estimate of value, to really just to inform my
intuition going into a negotiation. Okay, so let's look at these four methods. The first is that you could look
at the value of the inputs. And the way to think about
this is what would it cost for someone to recreate what
the entrepreneur has to date. And the reason that's important is if,
if it wouldn't cost very much for somebody else to create what you've done, then it's not really fair to ask for
some huge premium over that cost. To ask the investor to pay
something premium over that cost, because the investor would just say,
well, why don't I just start from scratch, find some other entrepreneur who could
get to where we are today at lower cost. So let me give you an example. Let's imagine that you're very early in
your start up and you've put in about six months of full time effort with
a partner, so you've put in together, the two of you have put in, six months
each for about 12 months of human effort. And let's say you're a recent college
graduate, you might have earned $100,000, actually, that would be quite
an impressive salary after graduation, but let's just say, you could have earned, the two of you together working six
months could have earned $100,000. Second, let's say you
require some cash for the initial expenses to get started,
and let's say that's $25,000. Third, let's say you've committed to work
for the next six months with no salary. The two of you have committed
another year of human effort, and let's value that at $100,000. And lastly,
let's put some value on the idea, itself. Now let's imagine this is
a fairly simple idea for a business, it's not like some new
patented molecule or something like that. And let's just put a value of $25,000
on the intellectual property. If we add up the value of those inputs, then we get $250,000 in total value,
and that's what I mean by starting with what would it cost to
replicate what you've got here today. Now let's imagine that an outside
investor provided $25,000, provided that cash that
you needed to get started. Under that logic, the investor
would own 10% of your business, using the value of the inputs as
the method of value in the company. Now, the problem with this approach
is that it doesn't really account for the fact that the entrepreneur might
have resolved a bunch of uncertainty, might have gotten lucky with this business
idea, might have considered three or four other businesses before settling
on one that eventually worked. And so, in some ways, it doesn't account
for the fact that the entrepreneur whose gotten this far has actually
resolved quite a bit of risk and uncertainty associated
with the opportunity. However, this first approach is quite
useful, particularly in very early stage investments, and
when you don't really have much, you've just started with some inputs
of labor, capital, and maybe an idea. So it's a good calculation to do. It probably would be considered a low
estimate for the value of the company. The second approach you
can take to valuation is to base your valuation
on comparable deals. Now you have to have some
data in order to do that. And there are a variety of data
sources on the Internet and in reports on venture transactions. You could also ask around, get a few
data points for your region and for your industry. Shown here, is some data that was put
together by a prominent law firm in Silicon Valley called Wilson Sonsini. And, shown here is
the pre-money valuation and the amount raised for
all of the transactions that they handled that involved less than $2 million,
of capital raised. And what you'll see here is that
the valuation varies by sector. So, consumer hardware is going to
be different from software. And healthcare pharmaceuticals
will be different from consumer products or
Internet commerce. And so, but for instance,
software companies here, show there's a pre-money
valuation of about $4 million for companies that are raising about
$1 million in capital, and so if you're a software company,
and you're in Silicon Valley, and you're raising capital, the, you could
use this data to argue that comparable companies are valued at a pre-money
valuation of about $4 million. And in that case, you probably wouldn't
want to set your valuation at $1 million, or conversely at $10 million. It's probably going to be somewhere in the
neighborhood of $4 million in this seed stage investment, that is, in a setting
where you're raising about $1 million. This approach makes sense in
a well defined category for venture backed companies, where you can actually get data on the
prices at which the transactions occurred. The third approach you can take is
to discount some future outcome, based on time and on risk. And, that's sort of an arcane, and
I realize, not too clear of a description. To make matters worse, I'm going to
give you an acronym, which is PWERM, which stands for probability
weighted expected return method. And that mouthful refers
to an approach that's taken in investment banking to
estimate the value of companies. And the PWERM method is actually not so
complicated, but I'm going to walk you through the steps. The first thing you do is
you define several different outcome scenarios that could
occur at some future date. And I'll give you an example, in a minute. Secondly, you estimate the probability
of each of those outcomes. Third, you calculate
a risk-adjusted future value, which takes into account what those scenarios
are worth and their probabilities. And then fourth, you discount that
future value back to the present, accounting for the investor's
opportunity cost of capital. Now, I realize those may
be very unfamiliar terms. So let me walk you through
a specific example. Let's imagine you're trying to value your
company, and that you can imagine that one year from now, 12 months from now,
there might be four possible outcomes. The first possible outcome is that
everything is going just as you planned. And you actually are successful
in raising venture capital at a $4 million pre-money valuation. Now by definition, in that scenario,
your company is worth $4 million. That's what it means for a venture capital to invest in you
at a $4 million pre-money valuation. So let's call that the first scenario,
everything goes just as planned and your company is worth $4 million as
evidenced by a venture capital transaction that occurs one year from now. Now a second scenario is that progress
is actually slower than expected, and you have to take another angel
investment at a much lower valuation, let's say $2 million. The third scenario you might consider is
that things are going quite badly, and you're forced to sell your
business to a competitor in what might be considered
a distressed sale. And maybe you would get
$500,000 from that transaction. And then the fourth scenario is that
your company fails, you go bankrupt, and nobody gets anything. So those are four scenarios. The next step is to assign
probabilities to those scenarios. Now in this example,
I've simply assigned even probabilities. So I've said there are four scenarios, let's assume that there's a 25%
chance of each of these outcomes. And in the absence of better information, a sort of even probability
distribution is not a bad way to go. But, I would say, if you have some
better information or some better way to estimate what you really think the
likelihood of the different scenarios is, you could use that. They don't have to be even chances
of all the different scenarios. Okay, now if you have a 25%
chance of getting $4 million, then that scenario is worth,
on a risk adjusted basis, $1 million. That's 25% of 4 million. The second scenario,
it's worth 25% of 2 million, or $500,000. The third scenario,
it's worth 25% of $500,000 or $125,000. And the fourth scenario,
it's 25% of 0 which is still 0. So in calculating a risk
adjusted future value, you simply add up those probabilities
times those outcomes and you get $1.625 million. And that's what I call the risk
adjusted future value of the company. Which means, all that's equal, accounting
for the different probabilities of the different scenarios, one year from
now, we expect the business to be worth, on average, averaged across all the things
that might happen, $1.625 million. Now, the problem is,
that's $1.625 million one year from now, and you want your investor to
give you some money today. And so you have to account for the fact that that's a future value,
that's a value that's out a year from now. And so, you need to discount that
future value back to the present. Accounting for
the investors opportunity cost of capital. Now the subject of the topic of how
to calculate the opportunity cost of capital is fairly complex and is
the subject of a corporate finance course. But I'm just going to assert that for most
venture investments, the opportunity cost of capital for investments of
this type is probably around 20%. And so if you take that 20% and
discount it back to today, then you are simply taking 1.625
million dividing it by 1.2 and that results in a present day
valuation of 1,354,000 and yes $167. So that, I don't want to with that
precision suggest that this is a precise value. But that's just how
the arithmetic works out. So that approach, called PWERM,
basically says, hey, maybe I can't estimate the value today, but
I have a better chance of estimating some future scenarios at some future point,
and putting some probabilities on those. And so I'm going to use
those future scenarios and probabilities to estimate some
risk adjusted future value and then I'm going to discount
it back to the present. If you're not comfortable
with those calculations, talk to a friend who's
really good at finance. They'll probably already know
about the PWERM method and they could help you think
through those scenarios. And let me just say one
other thing about PWERM. I have never seen that calculation
done in public between an investor and an entrepreneur. It's a little bit academic,
it's a little bit analytical and it's so dependent on assumptions that
I think it's primarily a method that you would use yourself to get
comfortable with what do I really think is the future value of this business and
how would I account for the risk. You would use it to calibrate your
intuition, I don't think I would use it, for instance,
in a business plan to set valuation. The fourth method that you can use is
to base a valuation on actual earnings. Now, of course, the problem with this method is that
you probably don't have earnings yet. And so valuations based on
earnings typically apply to later stage transactions in which
the company has an operating history and actually does have earnings. And so, in many respects,
this fourth method is more relevant for an acquisition, for an outright sale
of an ongoing company than it is for an investment in the early stages. Nevertheless, the method usually involves
taking what's called the EBITDA, or the earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization. Think of this as effectively the cash
flow that the company generates. Taken that EBITDA, or
the cash flow the company generates, and multiplying it times some multiple. And the logic here would be, let's imagine that your company is
generating $1 million per year in cash, what would it be worth to an investor
to acquire that entire company? That is,
what would an investor be willing to pay to have an income stream
of $1 million per year? Now, the problem with this method
is that the multiples themselves depend on lots of other factors. And it's quite easy to imagine scenarios
in which the multiple would only be 5x, that is, where you would only
be able to sell the business for five times the annual earnings. And that would be a scenario in which
the company isn't growing very fast. Or faces a lot of risks out in the future, where those cash flows
are quite uncertain. That would explain a multiple of about 5x. You can also imagine a scenario where
an acquirer would be willing to pay 50x. And that would be a scenario in which
there was a lot of growth anticipated. And where the company had a very strong,
competitive position and the competition was likely
to be weak in the future. To give you some rough numbers,
on average in the United States public companies are valued at
about 15 times their EBITDA. That is, an investor is willing
to pay about 15 times the annual earnings of a company,
in order to own the company outright. However, some companies are valued
at much, much more than that. So for instance, Amazon is currently valued at a multiple of
about 400 times EBITDA. And so that's just to illustrate that
this method has a lot of uncertainty surrounding the actual multiple that's
used to multiply times the EBITDA. The last approach you can take, and
I didn't put a number on it because it's not really an approach to valuation but
it's an approach to this problem, which is,
that you can defer the valuation question. And I might just say you kick
the valuation question down the road. You avoid having to even deal with it,
you put it off. And the way you can put it
off is through the use of what's called a convertible note. And the idea here is that the investor,
instead of agreeing in advance on what the investor gets for
their cash, the investor lends the money to the company in
what's called a convertible note. But they lend that money with
the understanding that when and if a future investment occurs,
an investment, let's say, a year from now. That that loan will convert to equity, will convert to an ownership stake in
the company at the future valuation. That is,
at the valuation that's established later. Probably by a more sophisticated investor,
maybe a venture capitalist. And so sometimes investors and entrepreneurs don't even want to
establish the valuation today. They want to kick that
decision down the road, put it off until a more
significant transaction happens. Usually, convertible notes,
there will be an agreement that they convert at a discount,
discounts often around 20%. So the investor puts some money into the
company with the assumption that when and if there's a future investment,
their loan will convert to equity at a discount to what the future
investment would pay. And that accounts for
the risk that the investor is taking in providing the money
earlier in the process. There's often also a cap,
meaning if things go amazingly well, we agree in advance that my note
won't convert at a value of any higher than this predetermined cap. Often maybe around 4 to $8 million is often the cap that's used
in convertible notes. So in sum,
valuation is critically important when you're taking investor's money
because the investor wants to know, what do I get in exchange for
my investment? At the end of the day it's a horse trade,
it's a negotiation between two parties, but it's very important that you do
your best to estimate value accurately. Because that's what's fair to investors,
you want your investor to make money. And you also don't want it to
be too low because you need to retain an incentive to
make the business successful. So I've given you four methods,
you can apply two or three of these methods to
your particular situation. Get some numbers to help
calibrate your intuition. Which you can then use in the actual
negotiation, where you set the value for your company in negotiation
with an investor.