Hi everyone, David Hsu here. The session is on venture capital and
the financing of innovation. One big motivation for
this session is that many startups, particularly the more successful ones,
end up receiving venture capitol. Think about companies like Google,
Facebook, etc, etc. And so, the goal of this session
is to give you an overview of one reason why we might think about having
a specialized institution for financing start ups and some information about why
we have the venture capital industry. Now before I get into the details, I think
it is important to take one step back. And recognize that venture capitol
is only one form of financing that you may be able to choose from. So if you think about the alternatives
to receiving venture capitol financing, you might think about things like
having a commercial bank loan regular debt type financing. You might think about sourcing or
tapping into wealthy individuals. So think about Google millionaires and receiving financing from such individuals. Those are known as angel investors. You might think about crowdfunding, so if
you have more of a product orientation and are able to leverage into a platform, crowd based financing might
be an option for you. Government grants are another source. So, here, there's a small business
innovative research grants from the US Federal Government. Or governments around the world will be
interested in subsidizing research and development. Those have their own particular rules. And then, of course, there's the old
stand by entrepreneurial bootstrapping. So getting hustling,
getting revenue from ongoing sales to financing ongoing operations and the like. So that's the background and there will
be other sessions that will cover some or all of those alternatives. The goal of today is to really talk about
this institution of venture capital. And just to give two very
specific examples on the table to really motivate this session. Here two companies which
received venture capital. So, the first Apple and
the second, Genetech. What I'm showing you here
is the rounds of financing that each of these companies
received over time. Take a look at Apple. First few rounds of financing were
from the founders themselves. And you can see that in the next to last
column, they're paying between one and nine cents per share. And as the venture capitalists come in
more uncertainty is being resolved, the company is being developed,
they're developing their products, they're really scaling the company, and the venture capitalists come in at
successfully higher prices per share. And then the company ultimately conducts
an initial public offering in December of 1980, valuing the company,
as a whole, at $1.4 billion. And of course, investors at that
round have to pay $22 a share. And so this is the natural progression
of a successful venture that there's uncertainties being resolved, the business
is being developed, investors that come in late have to pay higher dollar per share. And Genentech exhibits
the exact same sequence. And what's interesting to note
about these two companies, is that these are the companies
that worked well. The point about venture capital financing
is to try to design a set of mechanisms. So that you can guard against
the downside while giving incentives for both the investors and the entrepreneurs
to succeed on the upside. And so let me take one step back and conceptualize this in
a broader type of framing. The framing that I have here is one
in which there are two parties, the entrepreneur and the investor. And the big problem here is what's
known as asymmetric information. So the entrepreneur likely
has much better information about the likelihood of success
relative to the investor. And so think about two periods of time,
before an investment is made and after. So let's focus on the first period
in which the venture capitalist and the entrepreneur meet. There is negotiation, there is a process
of due diligence, in which the investor is trying to find out about the quality
of the entrepreneurial company and in fact the entrepreneur has very
little incentive to disclose all the problems that might be associated
with an opportunity to the investor. And so we can think about that
problem as one of hidden information. And the analogy I would like to
make is the used car market. If you are the entrepreneur trying to sell
a used car to an outside marketplace, say the investor, you're not going to
be incentivized to tell the buyer, the investor, about all the problems
that you have as a used car. It runs fine unless it's raining or unless
it's colder than 230 degrees fahrenheit. All those things should be discovered
by the investor or potential buyer, and so this asymmetry in information
can breakdown the market for funding start-ups. And that's one problem
that we have to confront. A second problem arises after
a contract has been signed. And the problem is quoted definitely
different, here the problem is that the investor cannot perfectly monitor what
the entrepreneurs doing with the money and the problem is one of hidden action, and
here the analogy is the insurance market, say that you have you car insured,
you may not be? Incentivized to always lock your car, always take the best care to
make sure that no damage arises. Because after all, you're only
going to be out your deductible, and that's not 100% of the losses. And so as a consequence with this
type of insurance type situation, the investor has to be quite careful,
because the investor's not a member or party to the company on a day to day
basis, not making the micro-decisions. And so as a consequence it's very common
for the venture capitalist to come on the board of the company and
to disperse funds in rounds of financing. So, in other words,
if as the entrepreneur, you need $100 million to successfully
roll out a product, venture capitalists, or investors not going to give
you all $100 million up front. Instead, what's going to happen, usually, is that the venture
capitalist will give you. $1 million,
$5 million to show proof of concept, a prototype, and should you meet
those milestones as the entrepreneur, you will then get the next
round of financing etc, etc. And so these two problems
of hidden information and hidden action are some of
the conceptual problems that plague the financing of
startups type of market. And if these problems are too severe, that can really break down
the financing type of relationship, and in fact gives rise to something that
we're not going to talk about too much. But the terms that govern
the financing between the investor, the metro-capitalist, and
the entrepreneurs are typically very, very complex. Because it has to reach some
covenants in the legal contract which allocate the rights to one party or the other, depending on
the different states of the world. And because there's so
many different eventualities and potential contingencies,
as to the states of the world that contract that governs investing
relationship is often quite complex. Now let me get very practical in terms
of telling you about what venture capitalist actually do to
earn their compensation. So they do a number of activities so
first state raise money for their funds from institutional investors, wealthy
families and individuals, pension funds. So think about the endowment
of Yale University, the pension fund of
the state of California. These institutions will allocate
a certain percentage of their portfolio to investing in an asset
class like venture capital. So, venture capitalists first and
foremost, raise money for their funds. They also source
the investment opportunities. They identify the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial companies that
may offer outsides returns. They perform due diligence, as we just
discussed, on these potential investees. They price and structure an investment so that it tries to give the right
incentive to the different parties to take the right action that will
raise value for all the participants. They then have to monitor and
hopefully add other or extra financial value to
the portfolio companies, they do so through their corporate governance,
sitting on the board of directors, trying to connect these companies
with the labor markets, with the capital market, with strategic
alliance relationships and the like. And then ultimately, the venture
capitalists are charged with exiting the investment, trying to find
some liquidity for the investors. We can conceptualize this flow of funds
and process in the following chart. These limited partners, the investors like the Yale University or
California Pension Fund allocate a certain percentage of their
portfolio to the venture capital fund. That venture capitalist is
called the general partner. The general partner disperses cash
to the entrepreneurial ventures. The portfolio companies who in turn
give up equity stakes in the company to the venture capital fund. And if all goes well after seven or
ten years or so, venture capital fund offers
returns to the investors, these things are often gauged by metric
known as internal rate of return. Now, just to give you a snapshot of how
large of an asset class venture capital is over time, what I'm showing you
here is data from 1995 through 2015 as to the amount of money that
venture capitalists in the United States have collectively
dispersed to start up companies. And you can see in the bubble period
there, there's a huge spike up. But this is a industry that's stabilized
in the $30 to $50 billion figure. And if you looked at the, if you instead graph the number
of deals that these companies, these venture capitalists are doing,
the profile would look very, very similar. Now you might also wonder, how well have
these venture capitalist investments done. And the study that I'm citing
here is actually quite revealing. These authors publishing in the American
Economic Review studied over 22,000 investments made by US venture
capitalists between 1987 and 2008. And they found that the average
investment by venture capitalists returned about $5.8 million,
that would seem pretty high, but the shrinking figure here is that 75% of
those 22,000 investments return zero. And what is happening is that
there's a very long right tail. So you have some outlier exits. So, for example Google conducts initial
public offering that's really exceeding the bounds in the multi
billions of dollars as an exit. And that lifts the average quite high. So what I want you to take away
from this statistic is that the venture capitalist business
is actually not an easy one. And as consequence, it's important to
assemble a portfolio of investments so that you can hedge your bets. Because many of those bets
will actually not pay off. And this has corresponding
implications for startup entrepreneurs like yourself,
in that you may want to design or look into mechanisms that will allow
you to experiment or test an idea rather than regarding the entrepreneurial
idea itself as an experiment. I want to end with one
research study that I actually published in The Journal
of Finance in the year 2004. And what I did was I collected
a sample of start-up companies. Raising the very early stage round
of investment, the Series A. And whats unique about this sample is that
each of these startup companies received multiple offers for financing for
the Series A round of financing. And I studied two outcomes. First, what is the likelihood that
the entrepreneur accepts a given offer by a venture capitalist, and secondly,
I studied what was the price per equity units sold that's being offered
to the startup company? And in this, in the study I controled for a wide spectrum of variables that
had to do characteristics of the venture capitalists, all of the
characteristics of the startup company, as well as many other variables
that differ in the sample. And let me quickly
summarize the results here. So the first striking result Is that the entrepreneurs did not
always take their best financial offer. And in fact, they left 12 and half percent
of the collective value on the table, that means that instead of always taking
their highest financial evaluation offer, they were willing to accept a discount. And that discount in terms of
the offers that were accepted, correlated very highly with
the reputation of the venture capitalist. In fact, venture capitalists
who had a high reputation were three times more likely
to have their offers accepted. And those high reputation
venture capitalists acquired start up equity at a 10% to 14% discount. What are the implications of the study? It means essentially that entrepreneurs
themselves perceive venture capitalists to be stratified in the value
added that they are able to bring and in the value added type of services and as a consequence entrepreneurs themselves
are willing to take a discount on their valuation in order to be affiliated
with more reputable venture capitalist. So what I like to do is to summarize this
session, and leave you with the take-away that the venture capital industry
is a very specialized one. It's fraught with many difficulties, not the least of which
are information asymmetry problems. As a consequence it's evolved to
something that's become very specialized. An institution that tries to be
very tailored in what it does. It can lead to outsiders performance but it's not a given that venture capitalist
investments are always successful. Finally, I want to introduce a few other
studies, which suggest that there's a tight correlation, or even causal
relationship between venture capitalists, especially highly prominent venture
capitalists and startup success. So one group of studies suggests that as
measured through business development and strategic alliances, as well as
professionalization of human resource management practices at startups,
more prominent venture capitalists are certainly correlated with
these measures of startup success. Another set of studies suggests
that there may even be a causal relationship between
prominent venture capitalists and innovative success or outcomes of
portfolio companies as measured through patent based innovation as
well as successful exit events as measured by initial public offerings and
successful acquisitions. And what's intriguing about this second
set of studies is that the authors took a look at events that were
really unrelated to what the venture capitalists were doing themselves and
what they did is they compared the success of startup companies
before and after the introduction of direct flights between venture
capitalist and portfolio companies. And what's nice about this setting
is that venture capitalists have no direct control as to the introduction
direct airline flights between their portfolio companies and
their own headquarters. But after the airlines have decided to
exogeneously place direct flights in, you see a lift In terms of
the innovation rates and the rates of success of these portfolio companies after
the introduction of those airline flights. Suggesting a more causal relationship
between the prominent venture capitalists and startup success. Let me conclude by suggesting
that the venture capital landscape is a complex one. It's fraught with many
information asymmetries and the industry has evolved to one that
has tried to really add value to startup companies in the need for
both startup financing and extra financial services brought to
those portfolio companies thank you.