Welcome to our conversation
about business models. Business models are
a complex topic. They've been defined
many different ways, in many different situations, and you might hear the term used in a lot of different contexts. Here, I want to talk
about business model as your framework
for making money. It's the set of activities which a firm performs,
how it performs them, and went it performs
them to offer customer benefits they
want and to earn a profit. So ultimately,
this business model, this framework for
making money can be used for many different things but two of them are
particularly useful. One is a way of providing a narrative for your
business and the other is a strategic
checklist and I want to go through both
of those examples. So let's talk first about
business models as a narrative. So a business model
as a narrative is that whether your story of
your business makes sense. So you are ideally combining
some set of numbers with your narrative about why
your business is a succeed. It's not a strategy, it's an overall story
about your company. So let me tell you this, these stories of two different
early Internet startups in the groceries industry. So one was WebVan. WebVan had a very sane narrative that
made a lot of sense. They were going to do
last second grocery delivery, last minute grocery
delivery, just like Peapod does today. The problem is they couldn't
get the numbers to work out. It was too expensive
during that point, the logistics of the Internet
weren't built out enough. They ended up losing $830 million trying to build that business. On the other hand,
you had Priceline, the company is famous for pay
your own airline tickets, started a grocery company. We would actually bid
for groceries and you'd spend your time
putting in how much you wanted to pay
for peanut butter, how much we wanted to pay for milk and you didn't know
what brand you're going to get. You just show up at
the store and there would be a basket of groceries waiting for you of the lowest bidder
providing those groceries. Now this never made sense from a narrative perspective
because unlike the airline industry which they're happy to bid
for your dollars, the grocery business is much more competitive and the brands like Jiffy or Skip peanut butter, aren't willing to bid
for your attention. They want the brands that sell their own concepts
and sell their own ideas. They spent millions of dollars
establishing these brands. So from a narrative perspective, this web house grocery
business never made sense. It never made sense
from numbers business do ended up losing hundreds
of million dollars as well. So both these are examples of business models didn't work. But in one case, the story at least made sense and
the other didn't. So this fits into
other industries as well. So imagine low-cost airlines. Both Ryan Air and Southwest are low-cost airline providers but Ryan Air are notoriously has terrible customer service and as a no-frills airline while Southwest tries to make people flying in their
business feel really good. So in one case, you
feel more nickel and dime and the other case
you feel good both to make profits but they have different stories
about how they're trying to do this and that pervades every aspect
of their business. So let's take
another example about how these differences in business
models can have big impact. Telematics is the idea of providing cars with
information so that they can connect to
the Internet and give advice and connect to customer
service automatically. So one of the first who
did this was OnStar. OnStar was founded by GM and EDS and Hughes Electronics in 1995 and it's a two-way
vehicle communication service that would let you get help
if you were in a crash, get guidance before
the days of GPS and so on. So there are two potential ways to make money in this approach. In one approach, I could sell the OnStar system as
a add on to the car. So you pay a lot of money
in order to do that. The other is I could
offer as a server so it's pretty much free
for the car but you're paying $12 a month or something like that and we're
going to have OnStar. So, here's two examples
of cumulative of cash flow over time. If you're below the x-axis that means you've lost
money and then over time, you make that money back
up as time goes on. So I'll give you a
second to pause. Which of these is the sell
it as a service option and which of these is the sell
it as a car ad on option? So the service has the red line which means
that you're going to require a lot more investment up front because we're going to subsidize the cost of putting
these radios into cars. But in the long run,
we make more money from their prairie revenues
while selling us a car feature means
that we make money back faster but we never make as much as we are
doing a service. So the same products
sold two different ways, shows you the advantage of thinking about
business models. So that's business as a story. Business also as a checklist. They work as a way of
having you think about how your business is going
to come together and how your strategy is going
to make money or not. So it basically ask
four interrelated questions. What's your value
proposition your customers? How are going to build
your product or service to deliver this value? How are you going to bring a product or service to market? How are you going to make
money from this product? You're not going to talk
about all these issues explicitly when you give pitches
or give a business plan, but they're all have to be in
the back of your business. There's lots of ways of
coming up with a checklist, the most common today is something called the
Business Model Canvas. There's nothing magical about the business model
canvas but there's a whole bunch of books and online resources teach you how to do it. This is an example on the screen. You can feel free to go
look that information up or buy Alex Osterwalder's book
on the subject, but you should know there's
nothing magic about business model canvases versus the many other ways
of business ideas. It's just a way of thinking about your business and making
sure you can check off all the interrelated concepts that tie your business together. So ultimately,
business models come together in a bunch of
different approaches. So one example is
an architecture business model. So these are businesses ideas
built around a platform and your idea is to
build a value-chain and bring multiple
parties together. So eBay is a canonical
architecture business. A market intermediary
will stand in between a whole bunch of
different people and you make money off of
every transaction. Uber is another
market intermediary. So they connect drivers to
paying passengers and they make money in between as these people connect
to each other. So they don't actually
own anything. They're marketing intermediary. You can also have
technology platforms that work like marketing
intermediaries. So the iOS platform for my iPhone or
your Android platform are technology platforms. So others build
products on top of them and I make money as people
use this product or service. So that's an architecture
business model and that has all those elements we talked
about come together here. Another example would
be a disruptive model. A disruptive model is
the idea of trying to do something that uses
the opponent size against them. So you have some idea about
why incumbents can't win, you dis-intermediatee
them in some way. So you can think about Harry's
razor blades or Netflix or Salesforce.com which was
the first software as a service system and
basically it was launched by doing the opposite of
everything Oracle could do. So it was founded by an ex Oracle person and he
thought about how I can take this high-cost service
at Oracle offers and offer it at a low cost
is software as a service. My favorite example
of a disruptive model actually came out of Wharton
which is Warby Parker. Warby Parker makes
custom sunglasses and eyeglasses that are delivered at much lower cost and they
went after Luxottica. Luxottica owns 85 percent
of the glasses market and because they own
this big market they have a huge amount of people
in their value chain. They have to pay to make
the market work so they charge very high prices and they end up paying retailers
to sell the product. They pay people to optometrist,to
sell prescriptions. They do lots of marketing. What Warby Parker
realized they could do is instead of paying all of
these people on the market, they could disintermediate
them and charge a much lower price thus
giving a lot of the value back to the end customer
and be able to make a lot of profit themselves and
sell it direct to consumer. So that's an example
of a disruptive model. You could also have
value chain models. Value chain models basically enjoin existing value chains
and do it better. So you can think
about how you control the resources to stay
in this business. So one example of
value chain models, Peapod doing the last second customer delivery of groceries. What does Peapod
doing? There joining an existing value chain
of grocery stores and suppliers and
customers and they're just handling one piece of it
that other people didn't do. Another examples Foxconn,
famously in the manufacturer of the Apple iPhone. They're not designing
the iPhones, they're not creating them. What they're doing is
manufacturing them. So they've picked a piece of
the value chain and they do better than anyone else at doing that manufacturing piece. There are many other
business models out there. You can do translation models, create for something
that works in one region and take
it to another. So another startup that
came out of my class was diapers.com.Brazil which took the diapers.com model from
the US and moved to Brazil. Or you can think about translate things from one
industry to another. So how can I be the Uber of musical instruments
or something similar? There's efficiency models. I can outcompete
other people because I'm better at margins. There's razor and blade models
where I give away the razor but sell the plates or the reverse razor-blade model where I basically use
the availability of something like Apple Music
to sell more Apple products. There's freemium models. All kinds of other
approaches that you could take to launching
business models. So there's lots of
complexity here. Lots of ways to think
about your business. Business models are the story about how your business works. There's no single approach and you can use it
either to build your narrative or as a checklist or ideally
you're going to do both. So think about all the elements
of your business, how they fit together
and how that films a compelling narrative that you can use to launch your business to convince
other people to get on board.