Welcome to our conversation
about financing pathways. So there are many potential ways
of financing your business and it can be very complicated because
they're all related to each other. So there's actually a number of
lectures in this series that talk about specific methods of financing, but
I wanted to give you a general approach about the overall methods and
approaches to financing. So this is a map of the many
kinds of fundraising that are available to new organizations. On the upper left in tan are the related
dilutive funding mechanisms. So what does dilutive funding mean? Dilutive funding means that in order to
get money from these organizations you'll have to give them a stake in your company,
they'll have to get a piece of equity. And these pieces are related. Usually it starts with angel investors and
potentially super angels, which we'll discuss. That usually results
in venture capital and eventually larger scale fundraising
that comes out of that, or else through accelerators which is another
topic that we cover in a separate lecture. So those are the dilutive
funding mechanisms, and again, it usually starts with angel investment. In the lower right, you can see
funding that's sometimes dilutive and sometimes isn't. Friends and family funding, crowd funding
which has a separate lecture on it as well, and the new area that we're not
going to discuss in detail because it's still being work out regulatory,
initial coin offerings. And then in the center, you have self
funding, which is basically funding out of your own savings, and
then debt funding which is non-dilutive. So, these are the sources of funding. You might be curious about what
sources of funding are most common for among high growth companies. In the US according to the Kaufman survey,
the most common form of fundraising is self funding and then followed by debt
funding, then diluted funding, and then finally the funding
through friends and family. And on the diluted funding
side it's a very small piece. Only a few percent of people
actually receive diluted funding. But those that do receive a lot of money. So if you need to raise a lot of capital,
that's the way to make it work. So let's talk through some of
these funding pathways in detail. So when you consider funding, there's a few ways to make
comparison on funding methods. The first of those is who
provides the funding? So is it a venture capitalist? Is it an individual? How is the funding being provided? And who's the source of it? Second question you want to think
about is your stage of interest. So in entrepreneurship, fundraising is
often dubbed as being in stages, so often there is a pre-seed stage,
or friends and family stage. That round of fundraising, pre-seed or
friends and family round, is usually used to build your minimal viable product, so
it is in very early testing of your idea. Then once you've been able to do that,
then you'll go and raise some seed funding. Seed funding is to show traction. To show that you actually
some interest in your idea or build a prototype if your
idea is more complicated. And then finally,
you'll go onto an A Round of funding. The A Round of funding is a more serious
round investment where you are going to start to scale or build out your business
or your build out your final product. There might be a B Round,
a C Cound, a D Dound, each one gets larger than the round before, so the
amount of investment also varies by round. Generally a pre-seed round you're
receiving about under $500,000, but that change. A seed round is traditionally
under $1.5 million. And an A Round is usually under
$3 to $5 million of investment. In each round, you can expect to give them
a third of the equity in your company if it's diluted funding. Somewhere between 20% and 40%. So these are serious investments and
take a lot of time to get. What you might want to consider when
you're thinking about fundraising what the value add of your investors are. Do they bring anything
special to the table? Do they have connections or
other things can be useful as resources? How much money can they deploy? What is their fund size? And how are they ultimately getting money? Why are they bothering
to invest in you at all? So let's start by considering these issues
from the side of the non-diluted funding, which are the most common forms of
fundraising, self-funding, friends and family, and debt financing. So these are usually all pre-seed funding, because by the time you're starting to
received seed money, a million dollars or more, you're going to have to
start receiving diluted funding. They're different in type. So self funding you want to think
about when you're doing this. Entrepreneurs often work for
a principle of affordable loss. So how much money can you afford to
put into your business idea before you walk away? And so when you think about self funding,
you might want to set up some sort of realistic budget or idea about how
much money you're willing to put in. And what sign you need to have that
you're willing to continue investing in your business. And you can use the techniques we've
talked about in hypothesis testing and lean startups to make sure you're doing
that in a useful and targeted way. For loans you want to consider about
who will give these kind of loans. So you can think about the kinds of loans
that can come in from government agencies, the SBA secured loans. There's a whole bunch of ways of receiving
loan financing for your business. And government funding
through things like SPARs and again we have a lecture
discussing loans in more detail. So friends and
family funding is complicated. It's complicated in a number of ways. One way it's complicated is that
there's an emotional component. You're asking people who care about
you to give you money in return for some sort of return and that emotional
element shouldn't be overlooked. The second reason it's complicated is
these people often what may want diluted funding, so they may want to make an investment
in you rather just giving you money. And if they want make investment rather
than taking a loan or some other approach, you want to consider using a technique
called convertible notes, and convertible notes are not very common. What a convertible note is and that's
covered in more detail in other lectures, is a way of deferring a decision about
the valuation of your company until you receive a major round of financing. So convertible note is basically a form of
debt that buys stock once you've received a more official round of financing
like a seed round or a series A Round. So the convertible note will then convert
into stock at some discounted rate when that occurs. So it's a way deferring decision
about how much financing to take and how much your company is worth
until later on in the process. Another approach to funding is to think
about the diluted funding kind of approaches. And there's a variety of
approaches to dilute a funding and I want to go through those options for
you here. And again, there's lectures with more detail on
these approaches elsewhere in the course. So one thing to realize is that the stage
of investment does change what kind of diluted funding that you can receive. So here you have comparative
numbers of 2010 and 2015. The 2018 numbers are not out yet, but
the trends continue to go higher. And so you can look at these
fundraising numbers and you could see angel investment and VC make
up by far the bulk of source of investment available to start-ups in
terms of billions of dollars. And VC is a much larger
component than angel investing, unless you look at seed stage funding. VC's almost do no seed stage funding. Almost of of that is
through angel investment. So, angel investors are where
you're going to seek out your seed stage funding also through
crowd funding and other approaches. So, this giant chart will help you walk
you through the mechanisms we talked about and compare VC, Angel, Super Angel,
Accelerators and crowd funding. All different funding mechanisms again are
covered in more detail in other lectures. So, venture capital funding is usually
happens in stage A or later and usually requires a lot of investments. So VCs are usually unwilling to deploy
much less than a couple million dollars. There's some exceptions to the rule. Generally VCs are about putting
a lot of money into a company. They offer a lot of
potential value adding. So they have networks and
connections they can give you. They offer governance,
which can be good or bad as you'll see in the VC lectures and
offer guidance. Usually they have funds of $100 million or
more they're willing to deploy. Some of them go up to billions of dollars. And they make money through fees so they charge a 2% fee a year often
in order to maintain their fund and carry which means that they get
a percentage of any profit that they make. And they are aiming for very large exits. On the other hand, Angel investors
are usually interested in the seed stage, sometimes even a pre-seed stage. And they can deploy as little as $25,000
or as much as millions of dollars. And sometimes they add value. So you might have an angel investor
who knows an industry really well, that can be very helpful. They don't usually have a fund,
they're making personal investments. And they're looking for equity,
simple equity leading to exit. So angel investors can be anyone. That can be a group of wealthy doctors
who are investing in your company. It can be somebody who's made
money before as an entrepreneur, who wants to make investments, somebody
looking to diversify their portfolio or even just having fun investing. So there's many kind of angels out there. There's many kinds of angel networks and
there's a discussion on angel investing that you can go into more
detail in the future lecture. There's also category of
angels doing super angels, so as the cost of start up has dropped
over time, it has become more and more difficult for a venture capitalist to
make early stage investments of companies. So, super angels have stepped up and somewhere between an angel investor and
a VC. They're highly connected
in Silicon Valley and other regional figures who
make lots of investment. Sometimes they actually
don't run small funds, but they make lots of seed
stage in angel investment. And because their investments are of high
quality because they're well respected, venture capitalists usually
follow on to these angel and super angel investments fairly quickly. So they may run small funds. They're often highly connected and
offer networks and governance guidance and they are again looking to make
equity investment in your company. As you have heard in the more detailed
conversation on accelerators, accelerators are pre-seed investments
that happened very early on a stage your company or join accelerators. They're usually going to invest
somewhere between $20,000 to $100,000 in your company, provide mentoring, networks,
classes, and ultimately, take about 5% to 10% of your equity in your company
in order to make that investment. Crowd funding as you'll see in more
detail in the crowd funding discussion, it can be diluted or non diluted. It's usually precede money,
somewhere between a $100 and a $1 million. The value add comes from the community. It's making investment in you. And they don't usually make money,
although, equity crowd funding does. So there are many ways to get
potential funding in your company. Each approach has its pros and
cons and not always substitute. So it's not like VC is the same
thing as angel investment, is the same as the super angels,
is the same thing as accelerator. There's reasons you might want to
pick one of these versus another and you need to think about own motivations. You need to think how these different
forms of fundraising complement or don't complement each other. And you have to realize that the early
choices you make about how to raise funding impact your later choices. So there's a lot of complication here. And I'd highly recommend looking at
some of the lectures on fundraising techniques and funding to get more detail.