In this lecture, we'll focus on the concept of Customer
Lifetime Value, popularly referred to as CLV. We learn how to
actually measure it using examples and
then also look at strategic implications for pricing decisions as well as
other business decisions. It just looked broadly. The concept of Customer
Lifetime Value has been used extensively
for pricing decisions. For example, how do you set a discounted
price on a smartphone? Printer, and cartridge pricing? Initiated by Hewlett
Packard many years ago. Device and disposable
pricing and medical devices. We can also use it to figure out which customer group
is more important, platinum, gold, or
silver credit cards. Or corporate mid-market or
retail customers in banking, it can also be used into figuring out the
value of an acquisition, mobile phone licenses or
a credit card company. It has many applications, pricing happens to be one area, but there are many
other applications of customer lifetime value. Let's learn how to measure
it and then how to use it for making better
business decisions. We look at a very
specific case study and this case study comes from the financial services industry. The context here is a large multi-product
financial services company that markets mutual funds, financial and
retirement planning. Large company dealing
with a regular customers, not high net worth individuals. At the time these
data were collected, the average contribution from
a customer was about $250. But contribution here we mean
price minus variable cost. Now 250 may look small, but most of these companies have very low margin so think of
low margin mutual funds. Even if the customer has $50,000 with you and you're making
0.5 percent margin. That's what you're looking
at here, rough and ready. Each year the company lost
20 percent of its customers. That doesn't mean the
company was sinking. It is just that if you looked at the list of customers
on say, January 1, 2020, and looked at the
same list on December 31st, 2020, 20 percent of those
customers would not be there. Some would have moved
to other competitors, some would have moved location, maybe changed their jobs. Different reasons for
losing customers. But 20 percent of customer
attrition every year, but they also got new customers. Those who stayed
with the company increased their contribution
by five percent. Because they
invested more money, bought different products. Their contribution
to the company went up by five percent. The first question to ask is, what is the value of a typical customer if all
we have is this data? What this company did, just to get a sentiment
from the company, they asked their brokers and
customer-facing employees, how much do you think a
typical customer is worth. Now they've got
different answers but the modal answer was 250. We know this answer
is not right, but you can see why
people were saying 250 as well as we don't know
whether the customer is going to stay
next year or not. We don't know whether they're
going to buy more from us so 250 is a safe answer. Now what we'll do next is try to use whatever
limited data we have to come up with
a better estimate of how much is a customer worth or customer lifetime value. Let's do it in small steps so we don't make things complicated right
from the beginning. Let's start with Case one. Let's say you have a
customer who gives you $250 each year from
here to eternity. Never dies, never goes away, religiously regularly
shows up at your desk and gives
you $250 each year. What you also know
is for your company, the value of money goes down
by 10 percent each year. What does that mean
in simple terms, it means receiving $100 today is the same as
receiving $110 next year. How much is such
a customer worth? I ask this question, I get different answers. Some say 250, some say infinity and a wide
range of answers. Let's work through
this thoughtfully and carefully using some
simple arithmetic. Going back to your high school, I'm sure you've seen
something like this. First-year we're going to
get $250 on the customer. It's worth all 250. Second-year again we will get 250 because this customer
is not going away. But this money is worth
10 percent less than it would have been worth
had been received it the first year so it's
250 divided by 1.1. We're going to get
another 250 next year and that'll be 250 divided by 1.1 squared because we're getting
it two years later. Now if you were to
do this carefully using good arithmetic
principles, it's a geometric series. It will add up to 250 divided
by 0.1, which is 2,500. That's what the math
is telling us that such a customer is worth $2,500. What is the economic
intuition for this if we don't understand
math very well? Well, not very complicated. Let's say you had a nephew
or a niece and you wanted to give him or her $250 each
year from here to eternity, and you go to your
banker friend and say, how do I make it happen? Let's for the moment assume
that for the banker also, they are able to give
you 10 percent interest, which is the same as the time
value of money you have. How much money would you have to put in your bank account, so that your nephew
or niece gets $250 each year from here to eternity with the interest
rate of 10 percent? Well, the answer is $2,500. You put $2,500 in your account, in a particular account, and the banker assures you 10 percent interest
from here to eternity, which is the time
value of money. Then your nephew or niece
will continue to get $250 each year from
here to eternity. Receiving $250 each
year from here to eternity with
the cost of money being 10 percent each
year is equivalent to having $2500 in
your bank account. That gives us some comfort that the mathematical
analysis we have done is a sound analysis. Now, let's go to case two. Let's now add one more wrinkle that we know from the specific contexts
we are looking at. We are receiving $250 each
year from here to eternity. Not yet, because
now we're going to assume that there is
20 percent chance of losing the
customer each year. Earlier we assumed the customer
is not going to be lost. It's going to be with us
from here to eternity. Now we are going to add
the extra information that we know that we have a 20 percent chance of
losing the customer. I often ask the question, if the customer is
there with us forever, the value of the
customer is 2,500. Now that we know we have a 20 percent chance of
losing the customer, how much do you think
is the customer worth? The most common answer and
the quickest answer I get is, "Professor, it'll be 2,000." Well, it's not hard to guess how a student came
up with 2,000. It'll be 2,500
times 0.8 is 2,000. But let's see more
carefully what the correct answer is and
there'll be some surprises. Let's start laying out the
process more carefully. First year we get 250. Next year, what are we likely to receive
from this customer? Well, we have an
80 percent chance that the customer is still around and 20
percent chance that the customer is no
longer with us. Our expected returned from this customer that year will
be 250 times permutate. That's the expected value. Once again, we divide by 1.1. Why? Because we are
getting it next year. What about the year after that? Well, we could lose the customer between year two and
year three also. The expected value
in year three will be 250 times 0.8 times 0.8. Once again, we divide by 1.1 square because we are
getting it two years later. Now, a little more
complex arithmetic is needed to look at what
this will add up to. But that little complexity at the end of the day gives
us a very simple answer. It's approximately equal to
250 divided by two terms. The first term is 0.2, which happens to be the churn rate or the chance
of losing the customer. The second term in the
denominator is 0.1, which is the time
value of money. The CLV now, given that we know we have
a 20 percent chance of losing this customer, is 250 divided by
0.3, which is 833. Now let's see what we
learned from this. I think some very
interesting things. Let's start by comparing
833 with 2,500. What does that tell us?, What it tells us
is very bluntly, that the cost of
losing a customer or the churn rate has a much bigger impact on
the value of a customer, than we would have
thought otherwise. It goes all the way
down from 2,500 to 833. Let's also compare 833 with
our intuition of 2,000. Many people would have
said the customer is worth 2000 because we have
a 20 percent churn rate. Compare 833 with 2,000, there is also a big gap there. What it means is the value
of more careful analysis. Intuition says 2,000, careful analysis say 833. A big difference
between the two. Now let's go to the
third case where we add one more piece of information that we
have from the customer, which is each year the
customer stays with us, the contribution increases
by five percent. How do we account for
this more carefully? Again, let's lay
out the pathway. First year 250, second
year, 250 times 0.8. But one more thing, now that we know this customer
is going to be with us, we are likely to get
five percent more. It'll be 250 times
0.8 times 1.05. Once again, divided by 1.1. Why? Because we are getting
it in the second year. Third year, it will be $250
times 0.8 square, why? Because we may have lost the customer even
between year 2 and 3, and then 1.05 square, why? Because by the time
it's third year, they would have given us
another five percent. Now again, I won't bore you with the arithmetic and
the mathematics here. If you have a little
bit of trust in me, I can tell you that the CLV here is approximately equal to, once again, there is a pattern. It's $250 in the
numerator divided by 0.1 which is the
time value of money, 0.2 which is the churn rate, and minus 0.05 which is
the yearly increase. Now again, this is
an approximation, exactly you can work it
out in a spreadsheet, but the approximation is close and the answer there
is now $1,000. Given the data we had from
our particular example, a better measure of
customer lifetime value, not exact, but a better
measure is a $1,000. In summary, given the
example we looked at, customer lifetime value or
CLV depends on four inputs. What is the annual contribution
from the customer, which we often call as return? What is the anticipated
attrition rate? We call that the churn rate. What is the yearly increase
in contribution expected, what is the growth rate of
returns from the customer? Then the last one is discount rate or time value
of money for your business. We put these four together, and what we get is CLV is equal to your
annual contribution, which we often call as return, divided by churn rate. In this particular case
it was 0.2 or 20 percent, discount rate, 0.1, which in this case
was 10 percent, and the yearly increase, minus 0.05, which
is five percent. Many companies often
use a shortcut method, and they call it the quick CLV, and just use return over churn as a surrogate
or as a simple measure. Return over churn rhymes, but it is useful in many
settings especially when you are comparing customers within
your own customer base. And you don't get
the same answer, but you get a close answer. So if you hear the
word quick CLV, most time people are
using return over churn as a way to compute quick CLV. Let's now start looking at
some decision applications, and let's start with
the specific company from where we had the data. The first thing we're
going to look at is, how does this company go about evaluating
marketing effort? This company used many
different means to generate leads that eventually
resulted in new clients. For each of these methods, they had the cost
of acquisition, so they use broker mailings.
What does that mean? Their brokers sent out mailings and some of those
converted to new clients. The cost of acquiring a new client through
broker mailings was $237. The company themselves sent
out corporate mailings, and the cost of getting a client through that method was $322. They conducted some
sponsored seminars, $235. They also, every
year when employees in different companies
had an opportunity to change their plans, they conducted some
employee programs, and the cost of acquisition
for that method was $1,377. The average cost of acquisition across all these
methods was $431. Now let's look at these costs and compare it against
what this company's staff, or at least some of their
front-facing employees in their mind, what was the value of a client before they went
through this exercise? Well, the answer was, many
of them said it was $250. Now if you compare $250
with any of these methods, even the ones where the cost of acquisition is lower than $250, is very close to $250, and the average is $431. Not surprisingly, the company was somewhat hesitant
using these methods. This is what we call as
targeted acquisition methods. Instead, they used
more what we call as broadcasting methods or mass
media to get new customers. After going through
this exercise, they became a little bit more confident of using
these methods. When you compare
these costs with $1,000 you feel
more comfortable, so the attention shifted to more targeted methods and not
ignoring them completely. Second, I think another
interesting problem that we can look at using
the data we have is, companies like
this may feel that their attrition rate or
churn rate is too high. Let's say it was 20
percent in this case. Is it worthwhile
spending some money to reduce the churn rate from
20 percent to 18 percent? Let's assume that
the customer base is five million customers. How would we go about
answering this question? Well, not a perfect answer. But a decent approach
is to do the following. Let's compute our original CLV, which we already
did, was $1,000. Each customer is
worth roughly 1,000. If we can reduce our churn rate to 18 percent from 20 percent, what will be the new CLV? The answer there is it'll be 250 divided by 0.1 plus 0.18. Remember, 0.2 is now going to become 0.18 because
the churn rate is likely to go down and of course the increase
remains the same, which is minus 0.05. The new CLV is 1087. What's the difference
between the two? It's $87. If we could increase CLV in our entire
customer base by $87, that'll be worth 435 million, which is clearly greater
than 100 million. Now you might say, I want even a greater return
on my investment. Four times is not enough. I need 10 times. That's
fine. That's your call. But at least you can see
what is the value of reducing churn rate
in a customer base. Again, a lot of
approximations in here, a lot of assumptions. At least better than using just simple judgment or asking your friend whether you
should do it or not. Now let's say you
actually went through this exercise and you
made a proposal to your senior management
that spending 100 million would be worth it because the
return is higher. But let's say you
get another question from your senior management. Yes, good analysis, but how about if we just
spent 100 million to get new customers instead of
improving our retention rate, which one will be better? We can do that analysis also. What was our average
cost of acquisition? The average cost of
acquisition was $431. With 100 million, we will get about 230,000 new customers. How much is each customer worth? $1,000. The return is 232,000 new customers times
$1,000 is 232 million. That's also very nice, but it's lower than the return
from customer retention. The method allows
you to compare, at least conceptually,
whether you should spend money on
acquisition versus retention. Now the answer will change depending on the
specific circumstances. In this particular case,
retention seems better. That doesn't mean acquisition
is not paying off. You might say, well, maybe if we have $100 million, we'll focus more
on retention than on acquisition and it's
not one or the other. All we're doing
is trying to make these decisions more
scientific, more thoughtful. Let's look at
another application but not using the
data we worked on. Think of a major
cellular carrier in a developing country that is possibly thinking
of an IPO or a potential buyout
and wants to sell a small part of its
business to someone else. There are two types of customers in the cellular business. One is what we call as prepaid customers and
other is postpaid. In the US, we mostly
have postpaid customers. Most of them pay their bills, but in developing countries, a large part of the
customer base is prepaid. They pay the money in advance, put it on their card
or in their phone, and then they use it and
when the money ends, they have to put more money, so they are paying in advance. That's why we call them prepaid. In this particular context, 90 percent of the customer
base was prepaid, only 10 percent was postpaid. The question in front of
this company that one of their senior
staff proposed is, would we be worth more
if we could convert 10 percent of our prepaid customers
to postpaid customers? Let's see how you may
go about analyzing this particular question using the data that this company had. The average revenue per user for a prepared customer was $35. The churn rate for a
prepaid customer was 5.4 percent and the contribution
margin was 80 percent. For a postpaid customer, the average revenue was
a little bit higher, 50 percent higher
actually from 35 to 53. Churn rate was 1.7 percent and the contribution
margin again, 80 percent. Now if you just look at
annual contribution, annual contribution
from prepaid is 80 percent of $35, which is $28. The annual contribution
from postpaid is 80 percent of
$53, which is $42.4. Clearly post-paid gives you a higher contribution,
50 percent higher. Now, let's do a quick CLV. Remember quick CLV is
just return over churn. Now if you do return over
churn for a pre-paid customer, you get $28 divided by 5.4
percent, which is $519. If you look at the quick CLV of a post-paid customer,
you have $42.40, which is the contribution
in the numerator divided by the 1.7
percent churn rate, which is nearly $2,500. If you look at annual
contribution, yes, post-paid is better than
pre-pared by 50 percent. But when you look
at the quick CLV, it is nearly a five
times difference. If you were to translate
this into valuation, the valuation at 90:10 pre-paid, let's say with 1
million customers, would be $716 million. But at an 80:20 ratio with
same 1 million customers, your valuation will
increase to $914 million, which is nearly
$200 million board. I think the point that
is being made here is that when you look at the world through this CLV lens, you may get qualitatively
different answers or different recommendations. Then if you were to look at the world through just
the contribution lens, and I think that's an
important insight. Here's one more example. Here's a company that
offered credit cards. They had customers who
had platinum cards. These are probably the
wealthier customers. Some customers had gold card, and some customers just
had the regular card. The fees were different. Platinum card, $300
a year, gold card, $100 a year, and then
regular card, nothing. Interest on balance
for the first two, platinum and gold was zero. These people paid
their balances, but the interest on balance every year from the
regular card was a $100. These things also had
different churn rates. The churn rate for
regular card was much lower because they
have no choice, so they are with you. Platinum cards can
shift from one card to another because
everyone's going after them, their churn rate was high. Let's look at two different
points of view here. If you just look
at the annual fee plus the interest that
you earn every year, platinum looks the best. Why? It's $300. Gold is $100, and regular is also $100. So platinum looks the best. But once you look at CLV
or quick CLV in this case, the regular card
starts to look better. Once again, you are getting a different picture about your customer base
when you look at the world through the eyes of simple yearly
contribution versus the lifetime value
of a customer. Another useful application of CLV when it comes to
your customer base, is putting your customer
base in a two-by-two chart. Most of the time when we
look at our customers, and say who's better, who's not as good, we ask the question, how much is the customer
willing to pay for our product? What is their willingness
to pay for our product? In some cases we
might call it EVC. Is it high or is it low? Those who want to pay more for our product, are
better customers. Those who want to pay less
for our product, not as good. How about combining that with
the value of a customer? CLV. If you combine that, you get four possible options. Clearly the customers
who we value very little and value our product very little will fall
in the low group. That's a no brainer, we don't want them, they don't want us. The high here is also
straightforward, customers love us, we love them, obvious
we want them. How about the trade-off
between customers who love us, but they are low CLV customers versus customers
who are high CLV, but they don't
like us that much? That poses an interesting
trade-off that we must make. Do we want customers
that love us, but maybe are difficult
to deal with, or do we want customers that are highly
valuable if we have them, but they don't value us as much? I think what it does is, it gives you a more finer
picture of your customer base. In summary, the concept of
customer lifetime value, or CLV, has transformed and disrupted how we do business
in many industries. It has disrupted our
pricing practices, it has made impact on
decisions like acquisitions, it has made decisions
on segmentation. I urge you to think about
this concept carefully. It will disrupt your industry if it hasn't done so already. Embrace it now so that
you are at an advantage.