My name is Karl Ulrich. I'm a professor at the Wharton school. And in this session is called Burn Rate. You're going to here as an entrepreneur
many times investor asks you, what's your burn rate? Sometimes they're just
going to say what's the burn? And they mean something very specific, they mean what's your net
negative cash flow per unit time? Usually it's expressed in monthly terms. So the answer might be my
burn's around $30,000 a month, that would be an answer
that you might hear. 30,000 a month by the way
that's $360,000 a year. So that's a little bit of a scary thought because it means that is
your net negative cash flow. The money that has to be provided by
the money you already have in the bank or by money you're going to raise
in order to support the burn. There are two closely related terms,
one is called the fume date and the other is called the runway. And I want to just explain
what these terms are. And I'm going to apologize for all of
us in the entrepreneurial ecosystem for just mixing metaphors willy nilly here. There's lots of different
metaphors at play here. But basically the runway is defined
as how much cash do you have on hand. That is,
what's the balance in your bank account. Divide that by your burn rate. And that defines your runway. And runway basically means how many
months do I have before I'm out of cash? What's the money you have in the bank
divided by your monthly burn? So let's say you have $210,000
in the checking account, and you're burning $30,000 a month. You're runway is seven months,
that's the way that calculation works. You're fume date is the date at
which you have no remaining runway. And so the metaphor, I suppose,
is you're burning your cash and you fume out or you burn all
of your cash on the fume date. And so these terms are related
simply by cash on hand, divided by burn rate, is runway. And the end of the runway, the time at which you hit the end of
the runway is called your fume date. Sometimes the burn rate is
not constant and linear. It's not just $30,000 a month. And this might be the case when you have
some unusual payments that you expect or when know you have a certain investment
coming in or you have to pay for some inventory and you might experience greater
than usual cash outflows in some month. And so for that reason,
most entrepreneurs once they're up and running a little bit, will do much
more detailed cash flow planning and will actually do a forecast
of what the cash balance is based on the proforma financial statements
for their company going forward. And we'll use that to
determine the fume date. So I'm showing here an example from
a real company, one I'm an investor in. This graphic is provided every month in a
presentation that's shared with the Board. And essentially what it does is
it shows the projected balance of cash out into the future. And if you read this slide,
you'll see that the forecast is that the company will run out
of cash in June of year 2017. That's the point at which
the cash balance goes to zero. So you can approximate your runway,
your burn rate, your cash flow with a simple term like,
I'm burning 30,000 a month. But if you have a lot of
variability in either spending or inflows of revenues, then you want to do
a more detailed cash flow planning that's going to produce a graphic like this. It will help you much more precisely
estimate what the fume date is for the company.