Entrepreneurs often come to me and
say, I've got an idea. I just need someone to build a prototype. Usually that masks a deep misunderstanding of what it takes to get
a hardware product to market. And it views a Prototype as a single
endpoint rather than as a process. I'm going to use a bunch of examples to
illustrate key principles of prototyping. And I'm going to close with a discussion
of working with suppliers and factories to get Prototypes built. Let me first make a distinction
between Focused Prototypes and Comprehensive Prototypes. A focused prototype reflects just one or a few dimensions of performance of
the product that you're developing. These usually are referred to as say,
test rigs or mock-ups. A Comprehensive Prototype is a fully
functioning prototype that usually goes through successive refinement and
often goes by the term, Proof of concept Prototype, Alpha Prototype,
Beta Prototype, Pre-production Prototype. Let me give you some examples. I worked to develop a new cordless
nailer as part of a new venture. And one of the concepts
we were considering was an electric powered cordless nailer. One of the key questions
the development team faced was, how heavy would the tool be, and
how would it feel balanced or not? We built this prototype
to answer that question. This is a Focused Prototype. It's made of plywood with
steel rods inserted throughout to give it the right weight and
the right center of gravity. This of course can't be used to
drive a nail, so it only mirrors one attribute of the product,
which is what is its size and weight. But we can use it to answer the question
of does this tool feel light enough and how does it feel in terms of
the moment of inertia and balance? This is an example of a Focused Prototype. I developed a product called
the cross rack bicycle rack. The big idea behind the cross rack
was that it would put the cargo right behind the rider. And it would do so
by attaching to the seat post. This was the very first
prototype that I built. It used an old stem from a bicycle. To attach to the seat post. And then I made this in my garage
just from bent steel tubing. This I called the proof. This is called a proof
of Concept Prototype. I was actually able to use
this on my bicycle and to verify that the concept had validity. This is a comprehensive
proof of concept prototype. This was the second prototype which
I called the alpha prototype. And this addressed a couple of concerns I
had with the proof of concept prototype. The first was that the rack
wasn't big enough and wouldn't accommodate a standard
bicycle bag and so I made this larger. The second was to accommodate the feedback that it would be nice if I could
remove the rack from the bicycle. And so I adapted. Another part from an existing bicycle
rack with another stem from a bicycle in sort of a cobbled together way, in order
to get that complete functionality. This was an Alpha Comprehensive Prototype. This was the Beta Prototype for
the cross rack. It has all of the features and
functionality of the eventual product but it was actually made by the factory
that would eventually make the product. And I was able to actually give
this to consumers to test. That's often the characteristics
of a beta prototype. So, this is a Beta Comprehensive Beta
Prototype but it still had a few issues, in particular the factory
got the finish wrong, so this had a glossy finish and
this had a matte finish and I also recognize that I really wanted
there to be a little bit of an angle between the way this clamped and
the angle of the support structure. This is the Pre-production Prototype for
the cross rack, and this is in every respect the production
intent design of the cross rack. You can see it even has the logo on it. It's got the proper angle. The surface finishes
are all exactly the same. In fact, this could have
been sold to a consumer, and this is an example of
a Pre-production Prototype. All of those prototypes are examples
of Comprehensive Prototypes. They're fully functioning but
they typically go through cycles that help the team achieve milestone and
demonstrate progress and to workout challenges in the design and
development of the product. What are the motives for
building prototypes? Why do you build prototypes? Well for you, for
the development team itself. You're building prototypes primarily
to learn, to solve problems and answer questions about do you actually
have so called product market fit? That is, does your solution actually work to adjust the needs of
your target customer? What isn't so obvious is that you also
build prototypes for an external audience. The external audience, for instance, might
include suppliers, investors and partners. The questions or issues that
you're typically addressing for an external audience are proving that
your solution works, technically. Proving that the dogs
will eat the dog food. That's slang for proving that customers
will actually adopt your solution. Those prototypes are very useful for
communicating what it is you're doing, and for demonstrating that you
as a team can implement. That this isn't just an idea, but you're actually serious about
implementing the product. Let me give you a few examples. Shown here is a furniture product. It's actually a media stand and the
production version is shown on the right. But the one on the left was
made with just found objects bought a home improvement store. That was meant to prove that it would
accommodate the different elements of the cable box, the DVD player, the remote, those sort of things,
and would fit in the room. It was probably made for about $10 US worth of materials,
and probably in a couple of hours. A Quick Prototype to answer questions and
to learn. Does it fit in the room? Does it accommodate the function
that it's intended for? This is a prototype that illustrates just
how simple a prototype can actually be. This was for a cosmetic Concept that
I was working on with a cofounder. The company was called Blend8. And we just wanted to be able to show
to others just a representation of what our cosmetic product might look
like and how the brand would play out. And so we just mocked up
a label with a laser printer, stuck it on a generic Jar and
used it in demonstrations. It's very effective as a way to
communicate that we are serious about this product and the product concept. This is a team of my students in my
product design class and they had the idea for a clothes iron that was integrated
with a glove and it's shown there by the woman there in the red sweater,
she's wearing it on her right hand. And the idea was that after you had your
clothes on if you had a little wrinkle you could sort of reach with your
iron glove and take care of it. Now, that may not sound like a great idea
to you but in fact one of the great things about they're building this prototype
was they could answer that question, does that work, are you burned,
can you do it at the right temperatures, how does it feel, how does the customer
feel about this idea and I show you this example because none of this four students
really had the technical background. To build a new iron but
they were able to put together a markup or a demo using found objects. It was actually quite effective in
demonstrating this product concept. I want to show you a good trick for
prototype in challenging products where it's very difficult to
build a Comprehensive Prototype that both works like and
looks like the production-intent product. This is a prototype that is functional for a nailer concept that we were considering
In fact, the concept here is to use a small explosive charge to drive
a piston that then drives the nail. And it integrates the existing nail
magazine from an existing product with some new hardware that we designed to
prove out that explosive piston concept. This doesn't really look like a product. It's a works like prototype, but
it's not a looks like prototype. If I were to show this to investors,
I don't think they'd be too impressed that this looks like a product, and yet it
would be quite effective in demonstrating that the core principle
behind the product works. So what we did was to develop
a separate looks like prototype. Let me show that to you. This is the looks-like prototype for
that same concepts. We were able to illustrate
where the magazine, the strip of explosive
charges would be stored. We are able to illustrate that it could
have two handle positions depending on how it would be used, and we were able to
illustrate the basic aesthetic size and shape and ergonomics, all with a very simple foam prototype that was
built by a model maker in a few hours. This, of course, doesn't have to work,
but it is quite effective in illustrating to outsiders what the eventual
product would look like. So a very nice trick that you can play
is to use two different prototypes. It looks like and it works like In tandem to illustrate
what the eventual product will be. I'd now like to walk you
through the evolution of a product from the original prototype
all the way through to production and talk about some of the issues that
arise as you go through the process. Shown here are the eight
prototypes that I developed to test original solution concepts, and
they embody many different approaches to the design of an ice cream scoop, and
they're mostly made of found objects. So if you look at the one
that's third from the left, it's actually made from a tomato paste
can and the end of a baseball bat. And it was made in probably 20 or 30 minutes in the shop using
just conventional shop tools. Some of the others you can see there
are made by taking existing products and cutting them up and reconfiguring
them in order to change the geometry. So this gives you a sense of
the kinds of techniques you can use just to explore solution concepts. Eventually I decided to pursue
the concept that embodied an angled scoop in which the scoop
head is angled relative to the handle. One of the key questions was what
the ergonomics and form of that might be. And so, I built a model out of
a material called balsa foam, which is just a foam material
that can be easily sanded and shaped into the desired eventual
handle and scoop shape. And that's shown here. The problem, of course, is that this
is just a solid block of foam and can't be used to scoop ice cream. So I had to figure out how
to make a working prototype from this basic approach. The way I did that was
to create some drawings, that were dimensioned based on the model. Shown here is one of two drawings that
I created that were based just on measurements from that foam model,
that I was quite happy with. I then hired a graduate student here
at the University of Pennsylvania to create for
me a computer model from those dimensions. That was a skill I actually
don't have personally. And so I just hired someone for
a modest amount of money to be able to create a geometric
model based on my sketch. Shown here on the left
is the geometric model, or an image of the geometric model
that he created in the computer. And once you have that there
are many suppliers who can create Physical models using
a technology called 3D printing. So, on the right,
you can see the 3D printed artifact that came about from the computer model
that was created from my hand sketch. The 3D printed model on the right is
one that I could actually use to scoop ice cream, and could verify that. In fact, the handle shape and
the angled scoop were quite effective. What came next was a series of iterative refinements from the original
foam model shown on the far left all the way through to the eventual
production design shown on the far right. I show you this to invoke a little
bit of humility about what it really takes to build a hardware product. Even for a very simple product like
a single-part ice cream scoop. We go here through dozens of iterations, each one of which prototyped in
order to verify the approach. What we eventually end up with on the far
right became the production version of the scoop, which is shown here,
sold by the company Belle Vie. This product, if you look at it now,
looks quite beautiful, looks highly refined,
looks like it was always meant to be. But what I want to do is to show
you that behind that experience, behind that result is a lot
of iteration of dozens of product variations to eventually
come up with That final product. So, when people say they ned someone
to help them build a prototype, often, what that masks is a misunderstanding
of what it actually takes to build even the simplest
hardware products, which is, it takes a lot of iteration,
a lot of trial. And a lot of refinement to get
from original proof of concept through to the final production intent. Let me also say that to really do
hardware products at a very high level of professional expertise that allows
you to be successful as an entrepreneur. You absolutely have to have the expertise
on the team that's appropriate for the task at hand. So while I was adequately skilled to come
up with the original solution concept of that angled scoop, I don't have, and
I didn't have, the sophisticated industrial design skills to create that
beautiful aesthetic final product. For that, I brought in a partner,
in this case a design firm, Lunar Design, to help me to build
that additional level of refinement. I want to turn now to the question
of how to work with suppliers. And I want to give you just two examples
that represent to two basic approaches that you take to work in with
suppliers to produce prototypes and ultimately to producing
your final product. I'm shown here at a factory in
Taiwan that make die cast parts, that is metal parts that
are cast by molding machines. And I'm shown here with the plant
manager in the middle and with my agent on the right. And in this case, the model is
that I provided to the factory a fully described detailed drawing and set of computer models for exactly
the part that I wanted them to produce. They then produce that part
exactly to my specifications, they don't even have to know what
the part does or what it's for. They're simply working from
a detailed technical specification usually in a form of a drawing that fully specifies the geometry of the hardware
that I want them to create. Now, the good news is
that when you do that, that means they have no proprietary
information other than the drawing. They don't even know what you're doing,
necessarily. The bad news is that you
have to do the hard work of actually creating all the details of
the design before they can produce it. There's an alternative model called
the ODM model, which stands for original design manufacturer. I'm shown here meeting with
an ODM in mainland China. And in this case this is
a motor manufacturer. And in this case, I went to the motor
manufacturer and I said, I need a motor that does this, and is about this big,
and has this kind of torque, and uses this much power, and
that hopefully I can buy for about $15. And then the factory goes off and
actually designs that for me, and produces a product to
my functional specification. Now that, of course, is really nice because I don't have to
do the work of designing that product. But let's just review
the basic strategies and approaches you can take to working
with suppliers for prototypes. In one approach, you work with
an original design manufacturer. In that case,
the factory has the know-how. Their staff created a design based on your
requirements, and the advantage is that they often know how to do that in a way
that's very efficient to produce. And the design work they do is often free. And I guess by free, I mean it's bundled into the cost
of procuring the parts from them. The disadvantage is that you have
nothing proprietary at this point. Anyone could go to that factory and
give them the requirements and they would produce it
to those requirements. The alternative is that a factory
that produces to your proprietary design where you do all
the design work and where you provide the details of
what it is you want them to produce. And the advantages and disadvantages
are exactly complementary to the ODM. That is, their staff doesn't do the work. That means the product might not
be efficient for them to produce. And you have to pay to get
the design work done, but the advantage is that you own the design,
that you keep it completely proprietary. They don't have any of the proprietary
information that goes into the product. So I guess is you think about
which approach to take, you ought to think about the source of
your enterprise's proprietary advantage. Where does your unique
advantage come from? Do you have something that's unique and
proprietary in terms of technology? If you do, then you really
have to own your own design. You have to do the design work required. Bringing to the task partners or experts
that you either get to join your team or that you contract with very closely. And then you provide the detailed
specifications to the factory and they produce to your design. That strategy allows you to keep what
you're doing unique and proprietary. But it comes with it It comes at a cost. Meaning, you have to do the design work,
you have to have the expertise. So those are the fundamental
trade-offs you face as you think about working with a supplier
in order to create prototypes and eventual production units for
your enterprise.