Hi I'm Ethan Mollick. Welcome to our discussion about how you
define the focal market for your startups. Now, one of the things that is true about
startups that may not be about larger companies is that as a startup, you don't
have a lot of resources or a lot of time. And you often have to be very narrow in
your focus of what market to go after, and what customers to approach. Because unlike a large organization, you're not going to have
a lot of marketing money. You're not going to be able to
explore lots of alternatives. And you have to be very focused
in what you're going after. So we're going to talk
about focal markets and we're going to use a perspective
from Josh Gans and Scott Stern, who have written a book on entrepreneurial
strategy that's quite good. And they talk about using
the market s-curve as a way of figuring out who your
beachhead customers are. So that's what we'll be discussing. And then I'll tell you a little bit more
about how to know when to enter market based on where it is on the s-curve. So, what is this s-curve? So, the s-curve is also
the market segmentation curve and you may have seen this picture before. But it tells you that over time,
which is the dimension along the x-axis, that people adopt technologies
at different rates. So, early on, there's a small percentage of people
that adopt technology, the innovators, then the early majority, then you start
to reach this large takeoff, many more customers adopt the early majority,
late majority, and finally laggards. And this adoption curve
is pretty universal, so we see this across almost any
technology that's being adopted. This is actually a well-proven
piece of social science. And the reason why people choose
to adopt a new technology or a new product has to do with
their own return on investment. So they're making a decision about whether
it's worth spending the effort and energy to adopt this new thing. And especially early on in a startup's
life, whatever your new product or service is likely not be perfect, not
have all the same features and bells and whistles and
customer support and packaging that a more mature product might have,
so it's risky and expensive to adopt. So the people who adopt your
technology early on are likely to be in the innovator, early adopter or
even in the early majority segment. So let's talk a little bit about why these
different market segments buy things in different kinds of ways. So this chart here kind of gives you some
nice characteristics of these particular markets. In this case,
we'll start with the innovators, that very small percent who are willing
to buy or adopt almost anything new. For these people, what they're interested
in is the status of owning something that other people don't have, or having
access to something no one else has. So they'll adopt something because it's
cool, because they can experiment with it, because it's something they
can adapt in some sort of way. We used to think about these people
sort of the technology tinkerers, but this isn't only in technology. In things like fashion, you could think
about the people who want to have fashion before anyone else does, or
listen to the latest music, or find the latest restaurants. These are innovators, they're adopting things because they
get joy out of adopting new stuff. In fact in really interesting work that
was done by Christian Cattelini and others at MIT. They actually gave everybody at
MIT a couple of years ago Bitcoin, every freshman who was entering the class. And they tracked to see who actually
spent Bitcoin and when they spent it. And in dorms where they gave
the Bitcoins to everybody in the dorm, the innovators weren't interested
in adopting it because there was no excitement in having something
before everyone else. But in dorms where the innovators
were allowed to get access to the Bitcoin before anyone else, they would
evangelize the product to everybody. Because they it gave him some status
to have their latest, newest thing. So innovators are great interesting
early market to go after. But the problem with
innovators is they're fickle, they're not buying your product because of
its underlying characteristics or goods or services, they're buying the product
because it does something new for them. So everybody is trying to compete for
these influential innovators. And it's very hard to compete with them on
the merits because there's lot of other products out there that give them
status of doing something new. Instead, a common market to go
after is the early adopters. The early adopters are buying a new
product or service because it gives them some revolutionary advantage
over other people in the market. So, it gives them something new and
exciting that no one else has. They want to have that product
before other people do. But they have some problem, that's radical enough that they're
willing to look around for a solution. Or they have some need for
a competitive advantage over others that's radical enough they need
to look around for a solution. So you can think about in the early
adopters, these are people who maybe, if you're selling business to business,
these are companies that are having some financial losses, or
having difficulty entering a new market. And are desperate for any potential
solution that will help them be able to address this particular concern. Or it might be people who have
some need no one else has and they're desperately looking for a solution
to it and they're willing to by that. So early adopters are a great market
to go after as a startup because they're willing to often approach
products that other people wouldn't because they need some
radical revolutionary change. The mass market starts
with the early majority. The early majority need
a demonstrated ROI. They need a proven technology that they
understand why it works, how it works, and that they have all of the support and
solutions available for them. So the early majority will
want to see nice packaging. They'll want to see customer support. They'll want to understand, if you're a
restaurant, what your calorie counts are, and what your policies are. So the early majority is looking for
evolutionary advantage and not revolutionary advantage. And that later goes on to the late
majority which is really adopting things in the mainstream. And eventually the laggards who
are the latest to adopt a technology. But as a startup, you're interested in
the innovators, the early adopters and the early majority. What's interesting about these
curves is they don't just tell you about who's adopting which
technology at which time, but they also suggest potential
strategic challenges. Of these strategic challenges probably
the most famous is called the chasm. The chasm is the gap between those
early adopters and innovators and the early majority. The early adopters and early innovators,
remember, want something nobody else has, either because they want revolutionary
advantage over other people, or because they want to be
the first to do something. And so those customers will constantly
push you to add new features, to keep pushing your product
in revolutionary ways. But to reach early majority, you need to
change the way you do business entirely. You'll need to have a packaged solution,
you might need less features, or less potential source of advantage
than you would otherwise. You need better customer service, better marketing, you have entirely
different distribution channels. So to reach that early majority,
you need a very different product or service than you do to
reach the early adopters. And many businesses fall into
the chasm between these two areas. So, they keep trying to
serve early adopters, but then the early majority will never adopt
their technology or product or service. And so
in order to be able to bridge that gap, you need to be thinking early on
about how you're going to reach across from the early adopter market
into the early majority market. So, Scott Stern and
Josh Gans suggest that you think about these s-curves as potential
markets to go after. And you want to think about who
your beachhead customers are, who are the customers you
want to go after in each market? And they suggest that at most a startup
can test to different markets and pick one, because you just don't
have the resources to go after many. So if you think your product or service
might be great to many different markets, you need to focus down on the two that
you think have the highest potential. And then you want to think about who
the lead customers are within each market. So, where are they in the adoption curve,
and then within the adoption curve which section are you going
to be going for into detail. Entrepreneurial sale strategy is
not just about picking a focal customer based on the s-curve, it's
also about thinking about three elements that are important when you're thinking
about moving from a beachhead customer to eventually expanding to
the rest of your market. The first of those is whether or not this
beachhead customer acts as a reference. A reference is a customer that will
help you get follow on sales and other segments. So, consider something like if you
have a product that's helpful for doctors, and your initial customer
could be individual doctors, that's who you want to move to eventually. But you have a chance to do a deal
with the American Medical Association. That would be a very good beachhead
customer from a reference standpoint. Because they would be able to create
connections with you both because everybody knows who the AMA is, and also because the AMA has many
doctors that they're connected to. And so would act as a very good
reference for future sales. Second thing you're interested
in looking into is whether or not you learn from each of
the segments you're selling here. So, if the segments you're going
after has very idiosyncratic qualities that mean that you can't go
after other markets or you're not learning something that's useful for other markets,
then you might have a learning problem. So you want to make sure that the segment
you're going after helps you learn about both the market as a whole, and
also about the needs of future customers. So you keep adapting your product in
a lean way in the right direction. Then finally, you want to make sure that
your beachhead customer is coherent. What does coherence mean? It means that your beachhead customers,
your focal customers, fit with the rest of your strategy. So imagine that you are making a fun
camera that can be used by kids. And it has a characteristic that
makes it appealing to the military. So the military approaches you and
says, hey, could we be a customer for your product? So you would want to think
about the coherence of this. If we're selling to the military
first then we're selling to children, is that a coherent strategy could follow? Or if we're going to sell to children,
can we later sell to the military? I would argue that probably
that's not a coherent strategy. So you want to think about whether
your customers are a good references, whether useful for learning, or they're
coherent with the rest of your strategy. So the s-curve gives
you other hints beyond why customers are adopting your product. It actually tells you what kind
of strategy you should use to enter the market depending on where
along the s-curve your customers are. To give you an example of how this works,
let's look at the s-curve for technology products, in this case
specifically laptop computers. So in the very early days of the laptop,
the early adopter innovator segment, you have the first laptop
you see there in the left. That's the Osborne which was
the first portable computer. And it weighed about 40 pounds,
it cost $3,098. It was very heavy,
it didn't have a battery, had to plug it in, it didn't work
very well, it was not very durable. So why would anyone adopt this
crazy computer over a desktop, which were much more common and
cheaper at that time? Well the reason people adopted it
there was no alternative out there. if you needed portability, say your
an oil well engineer who had to travel or a traveling salesperson with complex
orders, you had no alternative other than to buy this if you
wanted to travel with a computer. So, as a result, this sold to
the early adopters and innovators, people who had a need no one else could
solve even though the product wasn't great or hugely built out. So if you ever startup any technology
that solve some need in a very deep way, but isn't fully built out,
has problems associated with it. You want to seek out these innovators and
early adopters. Now, the technology of
the product continues to develop, in this case the laptop. And what you see there
in the second picture is one of the first Compaq with a q,
that was later bought by HP, laptops. It looks like a modern laptop. The screen's where you expect. The keyboard's where
you expected it to be. It has a disk drive built-in. It has a built-in battery. So, who buys this? Well, now that you're in the early
majority, everybody's buying this. They're buying it because they now
know what a laptop looks like. You're competing with all
the other laptops out there. So, if you want to compete, you want to
compete because your laptop is cheaper, or better, has a better screen, has features that other people don't have,
goes after some unique market segment. So early majority, you're not convincing people the product's
a good idea, you're competing with a whole bunch of other people to produce
the best version of the product. Now, time goes on, and
technology continues to develop, it gets better and better. Laptops start to get fast, they start
to be able to animate Pixar movies. They have better graphics and speed, they have higher processing capability,
they have better memory. But then you think about what most
people use their laptops for. And you might think about your parents or
grandparents for this, and they might use their laptop
just to surf the Internet, to be able send emails,
to be able to watch a video. You need a very simple laptop. So what happened was ASUS
came up with the Eee PC, which is the thing you see
furthest to the right there. Eee PC is terrible laptop compared to
the others that came out at this time. So it had a terrible screen,
it has much lower processor, but because of that it has a couple
advantages, it was cheap, it was light, and had long battery life, and
it was the first ultrabook. And for most people, they didn't need
all the stuff on the laptop that the high-end laptops of the day had, so
they started to buy this product instead. And so
they went after an over-served market, and you could think about tablets as doing
the same set of stuff to the PC market. So tablets don't do everything
that your computer does, but if you watch a video like this
class on it, it's perfectly adequate. So the s-curve also suggest strategy. For a new product,
you want to go after a market where you are going after the innovators
and early adopters because you have some clear advantage in your focal market
that lets people overlook your flaws. If you are going after the early majority, you want to improve product,
get better on some dimension. And if you are going after
a laggards market or a late majority market, you want to
think about re-segmenting the market and creating a new products that better
fits the needs of that market place. So deciding what segment
to go after is complicated, think about where the segment
is on the s-curve, make sure the segment's referenceable,
valuable for learning and coherent. And make sure it matches the overall
development of that s-curve in the market itself. And make sure that you are not being
over the top in terms of your testing. Test two markets and pick one. Thank you.