This session is on generating
ideas with individuals and groups. There are lot of settings
in entrepreneurship in which we need to
generate a lot of ideas. For instance, identifying solution
concepts for our new venture. That's a setting in which we'd
like to have several, five or ten, compelling solution concepts for
how to address the opportunity. Now the dominant approach in
practice today is to get the team together in a conference room
in a meeting and to brainstorm. To go around the room,
to write ideas on the white board. But it turns out that that's not a
terribly effective way to generate ideas. Let me give you an analogy. Let's imagine that a team of ten of us finds ourselves stranded
on a deserted island. The key problem we face immediately
is where to find food and water. Now let's imagine two approaches
to searching the island. In the first approach we all get together
in what might be characterized as a rugby scrum and we together move over the island
looking for interesting things. Looking for food and water. In the second approach we say, hey everybody go off in a different
direction for 30 minutes. Let's meet back here in 30 minutes and
report back on what you've found. I hope it's self evident
that the second approach is going to cover more territory and
reveal more interesting options. Well, the same thing is
true in generating ideas, about the worst thing you can do is get
the entire team together in a room, in a rugby scrum, basically,
all talking about the same ideas. Instead what's much better is to get
the same group to work independently and in parallel to explore lots
of different territory and then to share what they found. I've actually done some
empirical research in this area comparing two different
approaches to generating ideas. In the group approach we
had teams of four people working together at the same time for
30 minutes. In what I call the hybrid approach,
we take those same four people, had them first work for 10 minutes,
independently and in parallel and alone. And then get together for 20 more minutes
to work together to share what they found. And what we found was that in the hybrid
approach, those same four people generated about two and a half times more
ideas than if they worked together. And those ideas were
actually of better quality. Now hopefully the analogy to the search
on the island makes sense to you, which is that when you're in a group,
in a team setting working together, you all tend to converge
on a single conversation, on a single thread,
on a single pathway for exploration. But through the hybrid approach,
each of you can independently and in parallel explore different territory,
and then you can share that information in
the second part of the hybrid process. Now don't get me wrong, I'm definitely
not anti-team or anti-group. The team is very important. The group work is very valuable. But there's really no cost to
spending just a few minutes, even as little as ten minutes, having
each individual working independently and in parallel to explore unconstrained
by the thoughts of others and then to share what you've found. So in terms of the challenge of
generating solution concepts, I recommend that you adopt this approach. Use the hybrid process. Use an individual exploration
phase plus a group phase. In order to get people to actually
deliver what you've asked them to do, it's very useful to provide a numerical
target for the individual phase. I like to ask people to generate ten ideas
for whatever challenge that we're facing. And then a sad thing about many
organizational settings is it's hard to get people do their homework. It's hard to get people to do
the pre-work in advance of a meeting. So one way around that is to
actually call the meeting, but then in the first ten minutes
of the meeting simply have everyone work alone and independently
before you start the discussion. But the key thing is that find you find
a way to carve out a few minutes for everyone on your team to work
independently and in parallel in order to reveal the most interesting
and diverse set of solution concepts.