In order to think about society,
there's an awful lot of actors there. What we're going to do,
is develop an extremely simple stylized model of venture creation
that's just going to include a very, very small subset of the actors who
are relevant in the whole ecosystem. But this will allow us to focus on
a few entities, where we can examine some statistics and really understand
something about the value that is created. So to start, we need startups right? We need ventures to be created. And so we have entrepreneurs. Founding entities with ideas and
those ideas, those founding teams, ultimately will need some funding,
so Venture Capital is providing funding to many startups that
have high growth potential. Likewise for established firms that
are focusing on startups with particular products or services that may be
complimentary to what they're providing. In addition to this flow of money toward
ideas, we also see another sort of flow. So while the money is represented by green
arrows, the red arrow is used to represent the flow of people from established
firms to the startup context, right? We discussed in another module how
established firms can be inertial in the face of innovation. So professionals who are at these firms
can feel circumscribed by these inertial pressures, they'll want to
pursue these technologies and so this winds up causing some of them to want
to leave and found their own firms or join entities that are able to
pursue these sorts of technologies. And certainly this happens
an awful lot in tech. The traditional example here is
that a Fairchild Semiconductors in Silicon Valley. Fairchild gave birth to many
well known semiconductor firms as the members of their organization
left and founded newer firms. So one baby from Fairchild
is of course intel, which has been extraordinarily successful
in that space, but there are quite a few. And that's another
history worth looking up. It's not only that this happens in high
tech firms, but much of the value that's created in the startup context is in
the tech sector, which we'll see shortly. But there are other examples of contexts
where people will leave established firms. So for example, professional
services firms, legal services, accounting firms,
consultancies, and the like. Again partners at these firms may
leave and found additional firms, so the same sort of idea of established
firms spawning offspring occurs. So, lets talk about what's happening
in this context where new products and services are being created,
value is being created, investment is being made, and the like. Let's focus first of all
on the value that's created just by the fact that new enterprises or
small businesses exist. Let's talk about
the enterprises themself and the jobs that are created
within these enterprises. According to the Kauffman Foundation, 0.3% of US adults were
entrepreneurs in 2014. Let's put that in context. 3 out of every 1,000 US
adults were self-employed in 2014, had some sort of enterprise. So it sounds like a very small number,
but there's an awful lot of US adults. There are more than 28 million
enterprises in the United States. And over 99% of these
are small businesses. And small businesses are defined by
the Small Business Administration as less than 250 employees. According to
the Small Business Association, 67% of all private sector jobs created in
the US occur in small businesses. In high tech, this number is lower. It's not 67%, it's 37%. And this makes sense because the overall
set of ventures includes lots of self employment where there are virtually
no employees or a very small number, the food trucks,
the dry cleaners, and the like. In high tech, of course we have many
firms that become very, very large. And so even with that, small businesses
high tech start ups still account for 37% of all private sector
jobs created in the US, so a lot of employment is happening
as a result of venture creation. Let's focus on the value created
within these ventures for investors, much attention of late has
been focused on what are called unicorns. Startups that have grown and
been funded to receive valuations over $1 billion. So this fancy full name unicorn is
meant to conjure that the rarity of such an occurrence,
who's ever seen a unicorn? But of course the number of unicorns
is growing and it's no longer so rare. That said it's still under 100,
but again, it is growing. So put that number in perspective. The number of unicorns is less than 2 out
of every 1,000 venture back startups, 0.2% of all venture back startups
actually become unicorns, so it is rare. Here's a graphic that depicts
the great skew in unicorn evaluation. So this is just showing for
the 80 some unicorns that already exist, how much they're currently valued at. And as you can see from that really steep
curve that valuations pretty quickly stay close to $1 billion and there are
only a few that are much more dramatic. Of course the outlier on
the left side is Uber, which is valued at over
$40 billion at this point. As you move toward the middle of
the graph you'd see Blue Apron, which is between $1 and 2 billion. And then Eventbrite as you move
further towards the right, it valued slightly over $1 billion. The majority of unicorns,
like those three that I've just noted, are indeed consumer-oriented rather
than more enterprise-focused. Now importantly,
65% of these valuations are just on paper. They're based on the backing from VCs. The terms of the deals and the funding
that these firms have received, these are unrealized gains at this point. But if 65% of these firms are still
private with unrealized gains, we can also examine the 35%
of firms that have exited. Let's examine those statistics on exits. And when I say exit, this can be either
an initial public offering to the markets, or it can be an acquisition
by an established entity. If we look at the full set of firms that
received venture capital between 2004 and 2013, so the most recent decade for
which this data is fully processed and available, what we find is
that there are over 800 exits that were valued at more than 100 million. Of these, 145 of these were
indeed valued over 1 billion. So again getting into
that unicorn territory. Importantly, of these high value exits, 75% of them were in the broad
information technology sector. And so not only were the vast majority
of the deals themselves in information technology, but
these deals actually represented 86% of the overall value generated. So tech is really an area where much
value is being created both for investors as well as on the jobs front,
as we already discussed. The next biggest sector,
it turns out, is actually healthcare. In this brief module we focused on
venture creation's role in society. And even with the simplest model of
just start ups and established firms and investors, we could already see how
the creation of jobs and opportunities creates an immense amount of value for
investors as well as society.