Hi, I'm Kartik, and I'm going to
talk about how customers can help us identify opportunities worth pursuing. Now, recollect that the odds of success
for most ventures is quite low. Venture funds explicitly account for
this by maintaining portfolios. But how do you, as an entrepreneur,
deal with this high level of uncertainty? There are two things that one can do. First, you can simultaneously explore and
nurture multiple alternatives. This is the tournament approach
that was outlined earlier. Second, you can test these ideas with
multiple potential customers to identify the truly exceptional opportunities, and
then invest in those opportunities and build out those specific products or
services. In this session, I will discuss how
you can achieve both these goals, that is generating multiple ideas and
second, testing these ideas with
customers in one shot. That's essentially the idea of using
customers as sources of opportunities. This session is particularly relevant for corporate entrepreneurship, wherein a firm
has an existing base of customers that it can leverage to identify
new product opportunities. But when approached creatively, startup
entrepreneurs can also use prospective customers to source ideas and
opportunities in a very similar manner. Now I'll use a case study of Threadless to
illustrate this concept of using customers to source opportunities or
ideas worth pursuing. Threadless is a website for crowd sourced T-shirt designs and
also designs of other apparel. Threadless was an early
innovator in this space and the company was founded in 2000
by a designer named Jake Nickell. Now Jake participated in an online T-shirt
design challenge, which he won and when he won the challenge, he got an award, but
he did not receive a print of his design. That got him thinking,
what if he created a weekly design contest where the winning designs were
actually printed and sold to people. This led him to launch the website and
he had these weekly contests. Designers from all over the world came and
contributed their designs, and his team announced winners each week and
also printed these designs and sold them on the website. Winners received cash and also royalties on the sales that
were generated on Threadless.com. Now, what's interesting about Threadless
is the unparalleled volume and diversity of designs that were
generated on the website. Every week, close to 1,000
different designs are submitted and the company selects roughly around 10 for
printing. Over time,
this has resulted in about 500,000 unique designs being submitted to the company
by roughly around 300,000 contributors. The firm has printed
somewhere between 7 and 8,000 designs over this period of time. Now, this is really interesting to note
because while they have gone through a great number of designs and
printed a large number of them, Threadless does not have
a single designer on its staff. And not only do you get
a large volume of designs, you get a great diversity of designs. Seventy percent of the designs on
Threadless come from outside the U.S., including from South Asia, Southeast Asia,
Europe, South America and Australia. The people who contribute these
designs range from 14 year old kids to people who are retirees
around 65 years old. You get this great volume and diversity
of designs on Threadless and Threadless has been able to pursue this model,
as I said, without a single designer. Threadless is particularly instructive for
us even though Threadless is not really pursuing this idea of crowd
sourcing to come up with startup ideas. It is nonetheless useful for us as
entrepreneurs because apparel design, like startup creation,
is inherently risky and unpredictable. Most designs for apparel, especially for
unique apparel, actually fail. Threadless is able to address that by
trying to maximize the number of designs they get and using customers
to select the best designs and then minimize the risks in the process. While Threadless doesn't exactly represent
the case where customers help generate entrepreneurial opportunities,
it nonetheless highlights a process which is fraught
with uncertainty about customer demand. And how we can transform that when you use
customers to both generate the idea and also select the ideas
that are worth pursuing. In fact, the fundamental idea of crowd
sourcing has been used in a number of other contexts where customers
are being used to generate ideas for new products and new opportunities. For example, Dell has a website called IdeaStorm where
Dell customers can post suggestions on new products as well as service improvements
that they would like to see on Dell. Over time,
Dell has been able to obtain a little under 25,000 different ideas on
this website and several product innovations have been implemented based
on ideas submitted by community members. For example,
Dell launched back lit keyboards based on the popularity of that
suggestion on Dell's website. Another such example is MyStarbucks idea,
which is a website launched by Starbucks to allow
customers to suggest new services and new products that Starbucks could launch. On this website, Starbucks has received
over 200,000 different ideas and has implemented a number of them,
including launching new products such as their flat white, which is essentially
an espresso with steamed milk. This was a product that was
available to people in Australia and New Zealand and it was suggested to
Starbucks by some loyal customers. In addition to launching the flat white,
there's a number of other products, like the reintroduction of
the mocha coconut frappuccino was again based on ideas
suggested on MyStarbucks idea. Now crowd sourcing is not only a great
source of a large number of diverse ideas, it can also be a very useful tool for
opportunity selection, as well. Votes on a crowd sourcing platform
can be a great proxy for demand and the company can observe how many up
votes a certain idea has obtained to get a sense for how popular that
product idea might be among consumers. This is particularly beneficial given
the uncertainty during the early phase of opportunity selection. For example, on Threadless, the company selects the top 5%
of ideas in terms of votes. These are considered by the management and
the management then selects some very specific designs from among
this top 5% and then rolls them out. Notice here that Threadless
does not launch the top five or top ten designs,
they just take the top 5% and then use managerial judgment to
figure out which ones to select. This is important because
voting is costless but purchases are not, and so voting might
not perfectly reflect purchase intent. For example, there are certain designs
that I think are cool, I might vote for them but I might think that they
are perhaps not appropriate for me to wear on my T-shirt. So there might be certain mismatch
between votes and purchase intent. Similarly, it's possible that the voting
population might not exactly reflect the preferences of your actual customers
because for example, on Threadless, most of the voters are going to be
those who are passionate about design, perhaps designers themselves. Whereas, your average buyer
is not a designer and so there might be differences in preferences
so you want to account for that. Nonetheless, you get valuable data
through these votes that can help you select the right product ideas that
are most valuable to customers. Paired with managerial judgment,
these votes can be highly useful in addressing the uncertainty around
what's going to stick with customers. Now, of course, while I say that crowd
sourcing is a powerful tool, from both the supply and demand standpoint,
meaning that from a supply standpoint, it helps generate a lot of ideas,
which can be very useful early on. And from a demand standpoint, they help us figure out which ideas are
actually addressing the paying point for customers and therefore,
help us select the right idea. Now while it's useful on both supply and
demand dimensions, for crowd sourcing to work, customers
need to have a clear incentive to participate in the process and
provide their best ideas to the company. It's important to think through
what's the right incentive and they're many incentives
that are relevant here. I'll mention three of the most important. The first incentive is
a monetary incentive. For example, on Threadless, the winners get lump sum payments, there
are revenue sharing arrangements, as well. Therefore, I might submit my best designs to Threadless because I feel
I have a chance to win. Another reason to participate might
be because you want to encourage a company to solve your own problems. If you look at Dell IdeaStorm or My Starbucks Idea, I post suggestions
on these websites because if the company implements those suggestions,
it solves a personal problem for me. It helps me get the Dell I want or it
helps me get the Starbucks expedience or the Starbucks product I want at the store. Finally, another important reason might be
that I participate in such a website for skill development. On Threadless, some designers might submit
designs even if they think that their chance of winning is low because it helps
them practice and develop their skills. It helps them get feedback from the
community, all of which is important and useful from a skill
development standpoint. Putting all this together,
looking at Threadless, IdeaStorm and other such website, here are some best
practices that companies might implement when trying to get customers to
share their best ideas with firms. First, one has to think
carefully about incentives. Think about whether monetary
incentives are relevant, and if so, what's the right structure. Is it a fixed payment, is it revenue
sharing or things of that nature? Second, it's important to provide value to
even those participants who do not win so that they have a reason to come back. For example, that value might be from feedback that
the community provides to the participant. On Threadless, I submit the designs,
people comment on them, and that's valuable to me as a designer. Finally, it's useful to
encourage a sense of community. For example, we're providing a forum for
people to interact and if you get that kind of a forum, then one
might be more willing to participate, even if there's no monetary incentive. Now despite all these incentives,
I will mention or share that there are environments in which
it might be hard to convince customers to give us their best ideas even though
we have certain incentives in place. In these kinds of environments, one has
to think about other ways of getting feedback from customers to get information
on what they're thinking about, even if they're not willing to
directly share it with the firm. For example, people might leave
behind product reviews, or they might share their opinions on social
media posts, on Facebook or on Twitter. How might we extract that to figure
out what are customer pain points and what are problems worth solving? A good case study in
here is a company called C&A Marketing which is in
the consumer products space. This company was founded on 2003, and
today has 11 different brands and has a product portfolio of about
50,000 different products. They have had a lot of success
in this space primarily because they figure out which product to
build based on feedback from customers. But they don't have that direct contact
with customers because they don't have a direct customer base with whom they have
a relationship that they can go back to. Instead, the company mines
product reviews on Amazon to figure out what's a worthwhile
new product to develop. For example,
they might look at wireless or Bluetooth speakers and they might
look at reviews for these products. One reviewer might say hey, I love this
Bluetooth speaker, I took it to the shower with me, but it stopped working because it
turned out, it's very sensitive to water. Another review might say good speaker, but it would be great if it was waterproof,
as well. You might notice a pattern that
people like a wireless speaker, but they would love the feature
of waterproofness in there. That may lead CNA to develop
a product which is very similar in other dimensions such as a size or performance or wireless capabilities
as an existing speaker. But they might add new product
features such as it being waterproof, and that allows that
product to be developed without a whole lot of research because
the customers ideated their product. Furthermore, the chances this product
will be successful will be high because customers actually
helped ideate that. This has led the company to roll out,
they have a line of products called Jumbl, which are essentially consumer
products that they retail on Amazon primarily because they're
based on reviews from Amazon. They have entered their product line
called Ivation which is essentially the products that are highly
successful in the jumbl product line. These are redesigned, made as little
more higher end, upscale versions that are then sold, sometimes on Amazon, but at
other times, in traditional retail stores. Here's an example of a company
that has a huge product portfolio, 50,000 products and rather than coming
up with the ideas on their own, they research the digital traces that
customers leave behind in the form of reviews and social media posts, and they
identify product opportunities from there. Not only do they get good product ideas,
and they get a lot of product ideas,
but most of these succeed because the customers have
helped them select these ideas. In summary, customers can be a great
source of ideas for companies. They can help them
identify new products or they can help us identify new features for
existing products. Of course, in order for
this to work at scale, you need a large community of customers
who will share that kind of feedback. Therefore, this idea is most powerful for
corporate entrepreneurship, where you have an existing
base of customers. Having said that, I think startups and
early stage entrepreneurs can also leverage this idea by reaching out to
prospective customers at a lower scale. Furthermore, they can also look for
indirect feedback in the form of reviews and social media posts which
are none the less going to be very useful. I suspect that the idea of crowd sourcing
in order to identify new opportunities, worth pursuing is perhaps
going to be effective for very practical, but sometimes somewhat
incremental, product improvements. Rather than completely innovative
ideas that break the mold that nobody's thought about. Because if you want an idea
which nobody's thought about, it's unlikely that there's a lot of
customers who are posting comments about it and who are asking for it. Nonetheless, getting customers to help
you ideate, getting customers to help you select can both speed the process
of idea generation and also speed the process of finding product market
fit and finding customer validation. Therefore, it's a very
powerful tool to keep in a entrepreneur's arsenal during
the early stage of opportunity selection.