Hello, and welcome to the
session on The Elevator Pitch. Elevator pitches are
short descriptions of your business that
you can give to people, if you don't have
a lot of time to go into a full business
plan description. So, for example, during
the time you're running an elevator with
a prominent venture capitalist. What I think is important
about elevator pitch is, I think summed up really
nicely in this quote by Karl Weick and others that, "A business is talked
into existence." I love this quote because I think it's actually very profound. The business that you're
starting doesn't exist yet, how does it start to exist? How do you get resources for it? How do you convince
people to come on board? How do your customers on board? You do all that
through talking and through convincing people things. The elevator pitch is the
first tool in your toolbox of convincing people
that your business should exist in helping
give you the resources, customers, and other pieces
you need to succeed. So to really think about
an elevator pitch, you need to think about why
you're bothering to do one. You might have
a 100-page business plan in your mind or written down, and the question is,
why are you even bothering to summarize it, why are you creating
the elevator pitch. There's no way that a 20-second or 30-second description of your business will be enough to convince people to
give you money, or immediately, have
another meeting. The best you could hope for with an elevator pitch
is to start a conversation that continues on after you leave that elevator. So the goal of your elevator pitch is to
prompt the right question, to get people to ask
an interesting question. How do you know it's
the right question? Well, a question like, "Oh, you have time to do that?" or "That seems really nice, where do you come
up with that idea?" Those are not questions that get to the heart
of your business. If somebody asks you
a hard question, a question that actually
shows that they understand your elevator pitch and
could use the conversation, that is a sign that your
elevator pitch is successful. So that's why you do elevator
pitch. How do you do it? Well, there's a bunch
of ways of doing this. I'm going to give you
a couple of methods here in this section. So the first method of developing
an elevator pitches was actually developed not
in Silicon Valley, but several 100 miles
south in Hollywood. Hollywood also has
a problem of having many page documents
that need to be summarized in
very short pithy ways. In this case, scripts. So in Hollywood,
there's something called the high concept pitch. A high concept pitch describes
something by analogy. So, for example, if
you are a movie buff, who you might know the answer to, "What movie is Jaws in Space?" I'll give you a second
to think about it. So I thought about it as Aliens. So here is a movie where
just like in Jaws, where there's a giant shark picking off people one by one. In this case, it's
a giant, to the alien picking up
people one by one. You know already that this movie, just from the description,
is going to be scary, it's going to take place
in a confined location, it's going to involve
people one by one fighting with
some sort of creature, and the creature usually winning. So you learn a lot
from that analogy of describing Aliens
as Jaws in Space. We can do that with
startup pitches as well. So what's Facebook
for professionals? LinkedIn. So you already know that this is going to
involve a social network, it's going to be involve
connections to other people. But instead of sharing
baby pictures, I'll be sharing resume items. What about the
all-electric Porsche? Give me a second. All right. Another [inaudible]
founded company. In this case, Tesla,
the Tesla Roadster is the all-electric Porsche. Think about all the things you learn from that description. So we know that this car
is going to be expensive. We know it's going to
be optimized for speed, and not carrying a family. We know that it's going to be a fuel-efficient version
of a sports car. There's a lot of information being communicated
by that analogy. On the other hand, I often
see pitches in my classes that are things like Warby
Parker meets Netflix for pets, and I am completely baffled, I have no idea what this means. So if you have an analogy that works very well for
a high concept pitch, you should definitely
use it, but if not, if it's just a generic,
Uber for something, or when we are
the Amazon for cheese, makes sure that
that works for you, and that it's actually
helping you get to your point before you start to use
that analogy everywhere. So let's say
the high concept pitch doesn't work, here's
another option. You can use a two sentence pitch. Two sentence pitch is
also called a product positioning statement and
reasonable like this. For a target audience
who has a need, the product name is
a product category that offer some key benefit. Unlike our competitors'
substitutes, we are different in some key way. So what's great about this pitch is it manages to communicate in
just two sentences, almost everything you
need to know about a startup: who you're aiming for, what the product name is, why the product exists, who your competition is, what your benefits are
over the competition. So let's take another example using that original
Tesla Roadster, the first electrically powered
sports car of any note. So for who? Wealthy individuals and car fans, that's our target audience, who have a need, they want a high-end sports car that
is environmentally friendly. The product name
Tesla Roadster is a product category electric car that offers the
following key benefit; delivers unprecedented
performance without damaging the environment. Unlike our competition,
the Ferraris and Porches we're
different in some key way. We offer amazing performance without any direct
carbon emission. That's our key benefit. So just in those two sentences, we might tell you,
who product is for, what it does, and why people would be buying
it over the competition. If you're doing
a more advanced version, add in things like a hook, a team, or an ask.
So, what's a hook? A hook might be
something to get people intrigued about your product,
but in this case, the nine billion dollar
supercar market has no equivalent of the Prius.
Why is that a hook? Well, it's interesting to know and thinking about that idea that the high-end sports
car market has no environmentally
friendly option, but it's also
exciting to find out this a nine billion market
a year market, which means it has
significant size, and is worth potentially
going after. You can mention the team,
where founded by Elon Musk, and includes some of the top
electrical vehicle engineers on the planet. Why
is this important? It tells you, we can accomplish the goals of the two sentence
pitch and our startup. Or might also want
to include and ask, what do we want people to
do at the end of our pitch, we're looking for
$50 million around F financing for 10 percent
stake in the company, probably more ambitious than
most of us are aiming for. But you might say,
"I'm looking to find people who might be
interested in this product, we're looking to get
early-stage funding, we're interested in customers who might be interested
in trying out our product" Those are
all asks you can use to get people to do something
at the end of your pitch. So the goal of an
elevator pitches that prompt the right question. There's a couple of different
approaches you can use; a high concept pitch
if it works for you. Otherwise, a two
sentence pitch is a really nice starting point. But you need to take the time to practice to be really good. So doing that involves spending
a lot of time and effort, just doing a raw
two sentence pitch is probably not the right idea. You want to sort of think about how to make
it more compelling. Then we have other talks later on in this class about
how to do that, and you might want to have different pitches prayer
for different audiences. So if you're pitching it
to friends and family, that might be very
different than if you're pitching it to
professional investors, versus experts in your particular
field, versus customers. So you might want different
kinds of elevator pitches, and where possible,
don't just describe, show something, have the example
of an app on your phone, have a picture of the
product that you're doing, some sort brochure with you. So that when you have
these elevator pitches, people have something
they can see and understand why your product
is compelling or interesting.