This session is about
assessing opportunities. If you've done your job right at this
point you'll have several opportunities that you're considering for
your entrepreneurial endeavor. And in fact that puts you way ahead of
most entrepreneurs who consider only one opportunity. The question now is which of several
opportunities should you pursue? The key criteria for assessing
entrepreneurial opportunities are, first how significant is the need. Meaning, how many potential customers
have the need, and how deep is the pain? Is this an itch, or is it a migraine
head ache, or is it a gushing wound. You'd ideally like to identify a need
that many, many people have and that causes a lot of pain. Second, how effective is your
solution at addressing the need? Is a vitamin pill or is it a pain killer? Third, will there be large gross margin? By which we mean,
is the customer willing to pay, and able to pay, quite a bit more than it
costs you to provide the solution? That of course depends in part on how
cost efficient your solution is but also on the competitive intensity
in the market and in the industry. Fourth, how hard will it be for
you to acquire customers? Are they easy to identify? Can you reach them? Can you get them to try the product? And last. Are you the best team to
go after this opportunity? Does it fit with your passion and
capabilities? Do you have access to the required
resources, including capital? In an ideal world,
you're going after a big market, where customers have a lot of pain,
with a product that's really effective. That has large gross margins, that is it
doesn't cost you very much to deliver. And a market where it will be
easy to acquire customers, and you're going to do that with the best
possible skills and capabilities for addressing the opportunity. Now that's all a little bit abstract. So, let me tell you a real
story about a friend of mine. Alan Cook was my former student and
former business partner. We created a company called Scoop Free,
and what Scoop Free did was provided
automated litter boxes to cat owners. You simply changed
a cartridge once a month, and the litter box automatically took
care of the waste management. You never had to deal with cat waste, and once a month you simply
changed the cartridge. This turned out to be
a fantastic business. We made about $15 U.S.
every month for every person who owned a Scoop Free box, because they
changed a cartridge every month. It was a beautiful business. Alan sold the business a couple of
years ago, and after driving a Porsche around Europe for awhile, got bored and
decided he wanted to do something new. And so Alan developed a set of
criteria for what was next for him. Based on his prior experience with
Scoop Free, here were Alan's criteria. He said, I want to go after a big market. I want to market that has big gross
margins, meaning there's a big difference between the price the customer pays and
what it costs me to provide the solution. He said I'd really like strong
recurring revenue streams. Meaning I love it that once I've acquired
a customer, they keeps buying from me. It's not a one shot deal. But he also took a capabilities
perspective, and said I've got a great engineering team. And great product
development capabilities. We work well together. I'd like to do something that really
takes advantage of that existing team. We also have good connections to factories
in China that can make our products. It'd be great if we could
use those connections. And we also have good
supply chain capabilities. We know how to get product from
the factory to the customer. He also said we know how
to sell direct to consumer. And we have an ability to support
a subscription based sales model. That's another thing I'd like
to apply to my new business. Further more he said, in order to acquire customers we've
been able to rely on public relations. That is to mentions in the media. That gets the word out
about what we're doing. So I'd like to do something that will
resonate with our friends in the media, in the press. And lastly, I like to do something in
a market that has some obvious potential acquirers, and that speaks to
the notion of good exit possibilities. Meaning once I've created this next new
business I want to make sure there's somebody there to buy it, so
that I have a way to get out. So I have a way to get the return on
my investment from a potential acquire. So this is the actual list
that Alan put together. And what we then did is we held a meeting in which we took all of the opportunities
that the team had identified. You can sort of see them in the back
of this photo on flip chart sheets. We had identified about 50 or 60 new venture opportunities, and
then we simply screened those new venture opportunities against those criteria
in order to decide what's next. Now of course you're going to have to
wait to see what Alan came up with, because I can't reveal what
the new opportunity is. But what I wanted to do is expose you
to real decision making, by a real entrepreneur thinking systematically
about, how do I decide what to do? In some,
you want to address an important need. Meaning some combination of
a lot of people have the need or those that have the need feel a lot
of pain associated with the need. So that's first that you're
addressing a big need. Second is, you want the opportunity
to be a great solution. Again, you want it to be a painkiller,
not a vitamin pill. And lastly, you want to really do
something that plays to your strengths. You should do something that
you are really best at. That you can really excel at. Because that's going to
give you advantage. Now your specific criteria will
be specific to you, and so you'll generate your own list, but probably
quite similar to the list that Alan did. Simply screen your alternatives
against those criteria, in order to decide which
opportunities are most promising. Let me also add that it's not usually
a question of going from 20 or 30 ideas that you have developed to one. There's often an approach you can take,
the tournament approach, in which you say, which 6 or
8 of these are most promising? Explore them a little further. And then say which three or
four of these are most promising and explore them a little further, and then
finally select the one that you'll pursue.