Now Impact Entrepreneurship is a term that
refers to the creation of enterprises that are ethical, transparent and
have meaningful impact on our lives. Now, when we think about a firm
having an impact on our lives it's natural to think about non-profits or
philanthropies. Impact entrepreneurs are not necessarily
those, because unlike non-profits and unlike philanthropies,
they're focused on profits. And they're focused on
long-term sustainability. They do not rely on donors, and they are in fact, focused on creating
social impact through market strategies. At the same time,
unlike traditional entrepreneurs, impact entrepreneurs are focused
on double or triple bottom line. Now if you look at what exactly is
a triple bottom line the first bottom line is profits, which is a bottom line that is
the traditional accounting bottom line and every enterprise is focused on that. But in addition an impact entrepreneur
is focused on other aspects. For example,
the second bottom line is social impact. A triple bottom line is profits,
social impact, and environmental impact. And so
there are many dimensions to the mission of a social enterprise or
an impact enterprise. And in fact impact entrepreneurship
is synonymous with the term social entrepreneurship but it can sometimes
involve other areas beyond social impact, for example environmental impact. If you consider Tesla,
the company is trying to save the planet from fossil fuels
by pushing electric cars. And so it has an environmental impact. And furthermore it's committed to that
goal beyond profits by making its patents available in an open-source
manner to the whole community, so anyone else can leverage
the R&D done by Tesla. And that again shows
that Tesla has a bottom line beyond profits, and environmental
impact is a big part of that. Now typical areas that are addressed by
impact entrepreneurs include health care, energy, sanitation, education and
areas of that nature that have great impact and
are sometimes under-served as well. There are many well known
social entrepreneurs out there. Perhaps the most well
known social entrepreneur is Muhammad Yunus who is a Nobel Laureate,
and was the founder of Grameen Bank. A company that created the entire
industry of micro finance. Now Grameen Bank is a micro finance
organization that provides small loans to the rural poor in Bangladesh. The company has provided loans
to over 8 million borrowers and has had repayment rates of over 95%. The company is not reliant on donors and is self sustained based on interest
rates that it charges for these loans. Another well known social entrepreneur
is Iqbal Quadir who is a founder of Grameen GrameenPhone, which is a concern
that is partly owned by Grameen Bank. He partnered with Muhammad Yunus to launch
a mobile phone operator in Bangladesh. It was founded based on the belief that
providing connectivity to the poor in Bangladesh will help
increase their income, improve their livelihood by
providing them better job prospects. And in fact, today, Grameenphone is
the largest operator in Bangladesh with over 50 million subscribers. Another alumnus of Warton money,
Sabharwal, the founder of Teamlease is another
example of an impact entrepreneur. His company, Teamlease, is focused on
skills developement and job placement for people with limited access to education
and employment opportunities. Currently they're focused on employment
and employability in India and have helped over one million
people in India find jobs. Now notice that in all these examples
I mentioned these entrepreneurs and their respective enterprises are focused
on profits, they are indeed for profit enterprises. They do have a business model, but at the same time they have
a very clear social mission. And that pairing of profit focus and social impact focus makes them social
entrepreneurs or impact entrepreneurs. Now social entrepreneurs in most ways have to do the same kinds of things
that other entrepreneurs need to do. For example they also need to solve
the product market fit question, they have to hire the best
people with a limited budget. They have to manage finances. They have to figure out how to grow,
so the same kinds of things. But at the same time, there do exist
some differences and some unique challenges that social entrepreneurs or
impact entrepreneurs face. One of those really
important ones is scaling. It is not the easiest to
scale a social enterprise, because often these entrepreneurs
pick some of the toughest problems. And these problems are therefore
just because of the selection bias, not the easiest to scale or grow. Furthermore, the social
goal has certain costs, and very real costs associated with it. For example, the cost of reaching
remote or under-served populations. So, the costs add barriers, and make it difficult to scale
beyond an initial community or two. Now, while it's hard to scale
any enterprise, I think scaling a social enterprise is even
harder because of these kinds of issues. So, a social entrepreneur needs to
think about how do I scale much more? There are several avenues available,
for example. one avenue might be
scaling our two partners. So if you want to increase
your geographical reach, you can perhaps do so through franchises. So you train others and
they help take your idea or innovation to the field in other
regions or one might partner with another organization that
has last mile reach at scale. So, for example, one might partner
with the Red Cross or with YMCA organizations that have significant
geographical coverage and reach and great last mile connectivity,
when needed. In other cases, the barrier to scaling
might be policies set by the government. In these cases, the way to address
scaling is to influence policy change. For example, for Teamlease, the company I mentioned earlier that
provides job opportunities in India, a primary growth barrier tends to be lack
of clarity regarding labor laws in India. And so clearly for the company to scale
one of their big investments has been in driving policy changes in the country. Now another way in which
social entrepreneurship, or impact entrepreneurship defers from
traditional entrepreneurship is in the way one manages the whole process
of fundraising and financing. Now traditional venture capitalists
are often not an option for impact entrepreneurs. Venture capitalists often want to
exit their investments in 5-7 years. Because their fund life is usually
no more than about ten years. And social ventures often
need more time because, as I mentioned earlier, they scale
a bit slower than traditional ventures. And so one needs patient capital
in order to support the growth. And so when one is looking for patient
capital, you might not often look at traditional venture capitalists but
you might look elsewhere for example philanthropic foundations like
the Gates Foundation or Ford Foundation. These foundations often focus on specific
areas they issue calls for proposals and once they receive the best proposals they
decide who to issue their grants to. Government grants are also another source
of funding for social entrepreneurs. And finally, there are impact-oriented
venture funds like Khosla Impact fund, the Acumen fund, Omidyar fund. There are all venture capitalists, but who are willing to be more patient because
they're focused on social impact and they understand that the capital
needs to be more patient here. Now many funds are focused on impact but
they aren't always patient capital So, one has to really think hard about what's the
likely time to maturity for my business. And compare that to investor expectations
and make sure they're aligned. Now traditional venture capitalists
are sometimes an option when a social enterprise meets some of their main
criterias such as large market size and the ability to scale fast and so there
are many instances of enterprises that have significant social impact
that are very mainstream companies in the sense of raising money
through mainstream sources, like VCs, that is venture capitalists, and that are
run in a very traditional manner, as well. Now, while I've talked about
impact entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship,
one also sees instances where traditional enterprises adopt social missions,
and that's certainly something that traditional entrepreneurs
should also consider. A great example of that is Warby Parker, which is a prescription eyeglass
retailer that sells eyeglasses online. Warby Parker has a buy one,
give one model, wherein the company provides free eye
glasses to underprivileged communities for every pair of glasses that
are purchased on WarbyParker.com. And the company has donated over
a million pairs of eye glasses to date through this model. Tom's which is a shoe retailer uses
a very similar buy one, donate one model. Where every time you buy a shoe from Toms, you actually are also donating a pair
of shoes to somebody who's in need. Now, it's important to recognize that
these kinds of models do cost money. So the important question is whether the
social mission contributes to profits and how to prioritize the social mission
relative to other priorities that the company might have. Neil Blumenthal, who's a former student of
mine, and who is a CEO of Warby Parker, once said that customers
often put fashion and design first when it comes to
selecting their eyeglasses. Cost is next for them,
and quality is third, and perhaps Warby Parker's
social mission is fourth, so clearly the social mission is not
the primary driver of consumer behavior. But none the less it creates a certain
brand personality for Warby Parker, and that brand personality, in turn,
drives consumer choice. Because one thing that we observe is that
consumers are increasingly purpose-driven. And they're aware of the social impact
of their purchases and therefore this is a factor that they'll keep in mind perhaps
as a tie breaker or perhaps this is the one thing that'll help nudge them over
when they're torn about making a purchase. Furthermore, a social mission
is a great recruiting tool, so for Warby Parker it's a tool that helps potential employees get excited about
the opportunity at Warby Parker. It helps them retain people,
because people like to believe that their work contributes more than
just helping moving dollars around, but that there is a secondary impact as well. And so in that sense, the social mission
has been valuable to Warby Parker. So in summary if your idea has double or
triple bottom line impact, meaning it has an impact on environmental
aspects or it has social impact as well. One question worth asking is whether
I should run my business as any other enterprise or should I approach scaling
my business or fund raising differently because my business is more like a social
enterprise than a traditional enterprise. At the same time, if you have a
traditional enterprise, it's worth asking whether a social mission should be
a core mission for your organization. If so, the next question is,
how do you marry a social mission through a for-profit model that you
have in your organization. From what we have seen, there are a few
principles that can be applied. The first is that you want to
lead with the product first and the mission comes next because first and
foremost customers select your product or your firm because you solve
a fundamental pain point for them. The social mission comes in after that. Secondly, the mission should
be authentic and believable. There is no point trying to force fit
a mission just because you think it helps branding, because it invariably doesn't
work out, and customers see through that. And finally, the social mission should
be implemented in a very simple, easy to understand format. For example, think about Warby Parker,
they sell eyeglasses, they want to help People who can not afford eyeglasses
get access to eyeglasses, and they implement a very simple buy one, give one program that is very easy to
understand for any potential customer. So in conclusion, let me say that most of
what we have to say in this course about identifying the opportunity, and growing
the enterprise is just as applicable for social enterprises as they are applicable
for traditional enterprises. And so if you're a social entrepreneur,
stay tuned.