So we've been talking about how
assumptions underlie any startup business. And how figuring out what those
assumptions are and planning around them, planning to learn about them,
is critical to making your startup work. I'm going to give you a technique that was
developed here at Wharton called discovery driven planning that'll give you some
ideas about how to think about formally planning your business. This was originally developed by
Ian MacMillian and Rita McGrath, and it's a really interesting
way of building a toy model. What I mean by toy model is this is not
trying to reflect the real world in a deep way, but it instead creates a steady state
model of your business that lets you play with various assumptions and
figure out what's working and what isn't. And what's nice about this is unlike
a lot of other models that are financial, it takes into account the fact that
you don't know a lot of answers. So, the variation I'm going to teach
you about discovery driven planning has five steps. And before I explain the five steps, I want to explain how we're
going to go through this, so I'm going to give you a little bit
of a case that's a made up case. We'll walk through how you would
do discovery driven planning for that case, and
then available as part of this course, you will find a spreadsheet that will
actually let you play with this model. So, the model I'm telling you,
we'll built a spreadsheet for it. And then the second video lecture,
on discovery driven planning will actually ask you some questions about that case,
and will dive into more detail. So, it's a complicated topic, it's
much easier when you do this hands on. So use this as the introduction,
then play with the actual spreadsheet, and then the second video will give you
a sense of how it all comes together. So, it's much more intuitive once
you have your hands on this. But the five steps you have to worry about
are starting with a goal, mapping of the operational steps for the enterprise,
build a reverse income statement, benchmark your assumptions, and
match your milestones to assumptions. So, what does this all mean? Before I go into them in detail,
let me give you an example. So, let's take the example of your cousin,
Jon. Jon and his wife Joanne are carpenters. And they've been working as
cabinet workers for a long time. And they have been working in a bunch
of different fancy office buildings, and they've realized that the kind of
desks, especially standing desks that are available to people working in
these offices are pretty ugly, and not very functional. So, they've come up with a way of making
a really beautiful standing desk. We will doing creative work. And because they have modern carpentry
machines that they've been using to do their contract carpentry work, they actually think that they can do this
much more cheaply, and much more nicely, and much more ergonomically than any
standing desk that's out there right now. So, that's their idea. The company is called Better Desk,
again, this is fictional. And Jon and Joanne have asked you to think
about how they should plan their business. And we're going to build a discovery
driven plan for Jon and Joann. So, the first step is to
start with your goal. And this is part of what makes a discovery
driven planning interesting is, like most entrepreneurs,
you're starting with your endpoint. What do you want to achieve? What ultimately do you want to get
out of launching a new venture? And in discovery driven planning,
you think about that accomplishment first. And now, since we're building a financial
model, we need some numeric answer here. So that could be that you want to achieve
is a particular level of yearly profit, $100,000. Or that you have a particular price point,
when you want to make a $100 drone that follows you around while you do
extreme skiing and takes videos of you. Whatever outcome you want,
that's where you start. In the case of Jon and
Joanne, we've talked to them, and it turns out that what they'd
want to do to launch their business, they're excited by it,
they think it's interesting, they really want the freedom associated
with launching a new business. But they also want earn more
money than they're earning today. So, they want to take on 15%
more income than they do today, they're each making
$60,000 in our example. So that means that their business
needs to generate $138,000 in profit, 15% more than a 120,000 in order for them
to bother launching it in the first place, so that's our goal. We need a $138,000 in profit for
Better Desk. So what's the next step? We now need to think about the steps
we actually need to go for in our enterprise to make it work. So, what are the things
that we will need to do? Now, if you remember back in the previous
lecture we talked about assumptions, this is your technology in
operations set of assumptions. What are the actual concrete steps your
business needs to go through in order for you to be successful. So, what I recommend doing
is working backwards from delivering your product to your customer, and thinking about the operational
steps that you need to go through. So in this case, again,
I'm not a desk expert, so I made this up. And for those of you watching this video
who are desk experts, I apologize for everything I've gotten wrong about
the desk manufacturing process, but this is designed to be an example. So we start with the end point,
which is we sell our product to customers. So before that, we need to ship
it to them and deal with returns. Before that, we need to actually
manufacture these things, so people can use them. We need to go through some
sort of ordering process, where we book orders and
set them up for this. And we also need to have made people aware
of this before we do anything else, so we have to do sales and marketing. So these the broad steps
of your enterprise. Now, we then go into detail and think
about the operational specifications, the individual tasks and metrics that
matter in each step of this business. So in the case of manufacturing, here's my example of the sets of
manufacturing steps that I thought about. So, there's some raw material for desk, there's some delivery cost for that raw
material that results in material cost. So that's one bucket that
we have to worry about. Another is that the production line itself
will turn out a certain number of desks per day, and how many days per year
are they going to be spending doing this? How many production lines
are we going to produce? And then figure out the equipment cost for the production line, any depreciation
rate, and then the staffing. How many manufacturing staff do we need? How much we're paying them? These are the direct operational
specifications for the business, and you'll think about getting
all of those on paper. So you've broken down each
step of your business, and we can do the same thing,
you can imagine for sales and marketing. Thinking about how much we're spending
on doing advertising and marketing, who's going to do this, how many
salespeople we need, how many orders they book per sales call, how many
sales calls could they make per day. So we're getting very detailed into
the operational specifications for your business. Now, please keep in mind that we won't
have all the answers at this stage. So, you're going to do your
best job possible, and even the process of going
through this has benefits. We know that businesses that spend
time on planning are more successful when they launch than those
that have not spent this time. So, there's benefit to
even going through this, even if you don't have
all the right answers. You now go from having all of the
operations specifications of your business setup to building what we call
a reverse income statement. So unlike a regular income statement, where you're generating a based on what
you're spending and what you're taking in. In this case,
we start from our goal, and so if you look at this sheet,
you'll be able to download this again and play with these numbers, we have this
available for you as a spreadsheet. And this is for the better desk case, but you'll notice that some of
the numbers are in green. Those that are in green are assumptions, these are numbers we're estimating
based on some sort of characteristic. And the numbers of regular
text are calculated from this. So we're starting with the current salary,
you'll notice at the very top, Mr. and Mrs. Smith are currently
making $120,000 a year. We then start with our first assumption,
which they've told us they want to earn 15% more, that means the required
profit for Digital Desk is $138,000. And now if we skip down to
the manufacturing costs, we'll see that the raw material per desk,
we're guessing a number. The delivery cost that we just discussed
before, we're guessing a delivery cost. We're figuring out, we're assuming how many desk produce
per day in this production line. We're assuming how many production
days that are per year. So we're filling in numbers,
those operation steps, and linking them together in a reasonable way. So, all these costs are being summed up, and then being subtracted from revenues to
see whether or not we're still over that required $138,000 goal that Jon and
Joanne have. You now have a list of
assumptions in your business, and the goal then is to figure out what
are the best possible numbers that I might have that may match these assumptions? So, we don't know the raw
material per desk. So, what do we do to get that answer? So, we draw on our own
personal experience, but more importantly we call competition, we look for numbers in the press, and
we try and get the best number we can. So here I've created some fictional
sources for all this data. So, in figuring out whether the raw
material per desk, we have called our potential part supplier Hardware.com
and have them price out the numbers. So, we have a pretty good estimate
that's $120 in raw material, and they also told us it'll
be $10 shipping cost. When we start thinking, even things like
the desk per day per production line, we're now going to our
equipment supplier and saying, how many desks can we
produce in this equipment? And they're giving us that information,
that's what's being plugged in there. But then,
when we start looking at things like, further down, the manufacturing
staff per production line. We have that it's going to
take six people per line. In this case, we're benchmarking based
of on our best estimates of competitors. So, we've spoken to people
who know the competition and they're telling us that it's
six people per production line. And they're telling us that
the salary is $35,000. Now, those assumptions
might be more vague for us. We don't know the answer as well, as opposed to the calls we've had
with the hardware manufacturer. Who have been pretty clear about how
much we're going to have to spend. So, each assumption that goes into
our chart, every number here, has a source for it. It's either calculated from other numbers,
or it comes from some outside source. These are your assumptions. So you put those together in one chart,
and here we list a whole range of potential
assumptions, values, and sources. And again, you can play with all
these numbers in the spreadsheet. So step 4,
you're benchmarking your assumptions. You're figuring out what numbers you
can use to fill in the blanks for your assumptions, for those green numbers,
until you have better answers for your business. Step 5 is where this discovery driven
reverse income statement starts to become a planning document, and this is
about matching milestones to assumptions. So, you can't just have assumptions
in your discovery driven plan, you need to actually
test those assumptions. And you want to start, just like we
talked about in our prior session, with the highest uncertainty,
highest impact assumptions. Those are your key assumptions. So, you're going to figure out what
your key assumptions are by looking at the model that you have, and you'll
start by discussing this with your team. Do we know an answer to this problem or
not? Is it high uncertainty or not? You could do sensitivity analysis. The nice thing about discover driven
planning is that you have a document that now has all the numbers in
your business all tied together. So, if you move those numbers in a range, I change a number from say,
six employees per production to seven. What does that do to my
underlying cost structure, and what does that do to my profit margin? If I changed it to five what does that do? So, I can actually get numeric
answers by changing those numbers. And I can also look at
the list of assumptions. When you think about Jon and
Joanne, they're carpenters. So, I probably would feel very
confident about their numbers, about production cost because they
know a lot about making wood objects. But I would be less confident
potentially in their sources and uses for their pricing because they never
built and sold their own desk before. So also comes from the sources, or using to fill in those blanks
in the discovery driven plan. You're going to match these
assumptions to milestones. Milestones are moments in your business
when you're getting real world feedback and information based on your real
product, or service, or venture. So, we'll talk a bunch of methods later on
in this class session, we'll talk about customer interviews, we'll talk about
prototyping, we'll talk about surveying. So, you're actually going to be
getting data from the real world, and that data will provide
milestones on your business. Ways of updating your assumptions, and
learning about how the real world operates in a way that lets you
modify your business. So, just like key assumptions are the ones
that have the highest levels of uncertainty and
the highest levels of concern, key milestones are those milestones
that test the most assumptions. So in the case of Jon and Joanne, we've
created a bunch of potential milestones, again, I don't know the carpentry and desk
market that well, so this is hypothetical. But they might start with a market study
where they're going to gather as much market data as possible, they'll
purchase market research on desks, and they'll do some surveys of customers. So that's an easy milestone before
they even start production. The second thing they might want to
do is a trial production batch. So they might build a few desks,
and see whether or not their techniques are correct. If you think about it,
these milestones test different things. The market study is about testing
the customer value proposition. Do people want this desk? How do they buy a desk? What does the market look like? And the production batch is about test
technology to operations assumptions. How much does it cost to make a desk? How long does it take? So, each of this milestones
are the steps in their business, each milestones will be testing
the underlined assumptions. So, you actually just create
a milestones assumptions chart. All the assumptions that we've
already talked about are listed on the left-hand side. So, the direct sale price for desk,
the raw material cost per desk, things that were already in our model. And then on the top, the columns,
are the milestones in the business so the market study,
the trial production batch. And what you're going to do is match
the suit together by simply putting an x, where a particular milestone
test particular assumption. So, assumptions might be tested multiple
times, for example, we might test the raw material cost per desk,
when we do our trial production batch. And then we'll get more information
when we do our mock-up, or even more when we start production. So, you will narrow down the ranges of those assumptions as you get more
information at each milestone. So, this is a process of learning
real world information to change your assumptions, and to narrow those
assumptions down to get better information and build your model more
accurately as you go. Then you're going to I think about how you
order those milestones in ways that will minimize your cash burn
while you're learning. So, one of the cheapest
milestones you could do, a survey is much less expensive than
quilting a job and launching a business. And how do we learn as much as we can
from those early milestones early on, and then you're going to actually use this
milestones to help shape your business. During the on-going operations of
your venture, as you go along, you can keep going back to that
milestone assumption chart, and castly check the validity of
your underlined assumptions. And you'll update your model with those
numbers, as you update that model you're going to get a sense of where the problem
areas your business on financially. Whether you'll be able
to reach your goals, and you'll get advanced warning of potential
concerns in your planning, and that'll let you revise
your plan as you go along. In order to make this work,
never have more than 30 milestones and 30 assumptions in your business. If you have more than that,
you're never going to go back and re-plan, it's just going to be too much work. So, I recommend trying to match this
to the minimum number possible, and remember this is a steady state model, so this is not an accurate assumption
of how your business grows overtime. But it gives a sense of the underlying
numbers in your business, and how they operate. So, this is discovery driven planning,
again, if you watch the next video, we'll talk about the example
of Better Desk, and I want you to have spend some time
looking at the spreadsheet first. But it gives you a quantitative tool for
analyzing your company even in the phase of uncertainty, and
it gives you a real numbers a test. So if later on you are doing a survey,
and you want to survey customers to see how many are interest
in your product or what price they pay, you actually numbers in your model to
inform those questions that you're asking. And then it forces you even more
importantly than [INAUDIBLE] to think about your
assumptions in a real way. To actually go through the discipline of
thinking about what are the underlying questions in your business, and
how do we reduce risk at the lowest cost? If you don't do something like this, you're going to end up with a whole
bunch unsurfaced assumptions that will ultimately cause you huge
problems running your enterprise. And what's nice is, a discovery driven
plan shows you in advance potential problems you have, and gives you
a variety of options to solve them. So, it may turn out that Jon and Joanne need to produce more
desks to satisfy demand, great. The discovery driven plan will indicate
that as they start testing assumptions, they could speed up their business. And it might be that this works out
better as a lifestyle business, something they do on the size. So, they might slow down to they might
found out that the market as they go forward, is going to pay a lot more for desks in the architecture industry than
in the computer programming industry. So that would give them a chance to pivot,
and change direction. Or maybe they find out this is not a good
idea at all and they exit the business and quit, but they do that before they spent
a lot of money or quit their jobs. So, discovery driven planning lets
you look at all these options, and think about them in advance. It's a very useful tool. I even ask my startups in my class
that are doing things like software as a service, or even creating an app to
think about discovery driven planning. because even if you're
planning rapid growth and you're planning on not making a huge
amount of revenue, but spending money. This is a very powerful technique for thinking the assumptions that
are underlying your business, and thinking about the options that you
have to change things as time moves on.