So who is a typical entrepreneur? It's a really important
question because you might want to know whether
you're a typical entrepreneur, whether you'll be successful, and you might want to
invest in entrepreneurs and know whether
they'll be successful. We tend to think about
typical entrepreneurs, we tend to think
about people like these two individuals
on your screen. So there's Bill Gates looking very happy
with his computer, and there's Mark
Zuckerberg working away at his Harvard dorm. These two have a lot in common. They're both Harvard dropouts, they're both
programming geniuses, they're both White males, they're both very young. So this tends to be the example that we have in our head when we
think about founders, and since there are others too. Steve Jobs was also
a college dropout. We could think about other people like that who founded companies, whether Elon Musk or
people like Jeff Bezos who are again starting
companies relatively young, generally
technical geniuses. So is this accurate? Well, it's a really
big deal because this becomes our vision of
what a founder is. It turns out founders don't
actually look like this, and the most successful
founders tend to very much not look like this. So if you are not a young, male, college dropout from Harvard,
there's hope for you yet. So let's talk about
some of the myths behind this vision
of the founder. So myth number 1,
you'll notice that these are all 20-something, 18-year-olds, late teen college
dropout type of people. It turns out that this idea of the young entrepreneur that's
so prevalent that even investors sometimes look for people with this sort of age gap of being
younger entrepreneurs. It turns out to be very wrong. So here's some work
by Pierre, Xue Li, and others looking at the traditional founding age
for entrepreneurship. It turns out, the average age for a founder of a successful
company is 42. That's not just any founding. Even VC backed companies, the average age of a founder for a VC backed company is also 42. Success for
macro giant success in a startup company peaks
between ages 45 and 52. Now, it doesn't mean
you shouldn't start a company if you're
a young college dropout, but it also means
that if you're an older individual with a family, all the evidence
seems to suggest that entrepreneurship
is something that can be done at any age, and actually, you might be more successful as an older
entrepreneur. So this is a myth, a
misconception that we have that young founders who work all the time and don't have families
are the most successful. That isn't borne out
by the evidence. These are really careful results
and they suggest that in your 40s is actually
the golden time to launch a startup company. Okay, so that's one conception. Another misconception is about the race and gender of founders. So you'll notice Mark Zuckerberg, and Jeff Bezos, and Bill Gates
are all White males. But around 38 percent of all businesses in the US
are started by women. By 36 percent of
all businesses in the United States are started by members of minority groups. So this conception that everybody who founds a company is a White
male isn't actually true. Now, that doesn't mean that there aren't barriers
that are often faced by women and minorities
starting companies. It's often harder for
them to get started. Sometimes, harder
to get money and initial resource in place. Those are things we'll talk
about in other lectures. But once you have
those resource in place, I have some evidence
from looking at thousands of startups that
receive crowdfunding. Then once you've
received funding, there is no difference that
I can find based on race, or gender, or family status, or even education level, or age on the kind of outcomes
that startups achieve. So once you have that funding, there doesn't seem to be a reason why women would underperform men or minority groups would
underperform majority groups. So that race and gender shouldn't be holding you back
from launching startup too. It's not that there aren't particular constraints
that you have to deal with and
worries about bias. Those are very
reasonable worries and ones we'll discuss
in other lectures. But the idea that
all startups are White males is also
not based in reality. A third error is
based on attitude. We tend to view entrepreneurs
as these cocky, overconfident individuals
with huge amounts of passion and with
a particular personality type of being very driven
and very focused. So some of that conceptions
are more right than others. Overconfidence, the idea that
you're definitely going to succeed is actually predictive of people choosing to
become entrepreneurs. It's also predictive of people choosing to go
into rock and roll, or hip hop, or other fields
where most people fail. In order to go into these fields where failure is very common, you need to be overconfident, you need to think that
failure won't happen to me. However, overconfidence
doesn't actually predict your ability to succeed. So overconfident individuals
are not more likely to succeed than not
overconfident individuals. So overconfidence is helpful for entering
entrepreneurship, but doesn't actually
predict success. Similarly, entrepreneurial
passion actually does seem to predict
success to some degree. So people who actually care about their business idea no
matter what it is seem to be more likely to be successful and more likely to enter
entrepreneurship but the effects are not
particularly strong. There's no single
personality type that dominates entrepreneurship. There're aspects that seem to predict entrepreneurship
and may be associated with success like having a locus of control
center on yourself, that the fact that you
want to be in control of your own destiny seems to be associated with
some entrepreneurial activity, entrepreneur success. But there's no factor
that's such a large factor, no personality
issue that's so big that outweighs other concerns
in entrepreneurship. So if you don't fit the typical
entrepreneurial profile, you're not as excited about
your business as they are, you don't have the same
personality type as they are, that doesn't mean you can't be successful as an entrepreneur. So in conclusion, there is
no one type of entrepreneur, and entrepreneurship is
much more diverse than Bill Gates or Mark Zuckerberg
might give you as examples. So there's no single personality, there's no single type, anyone can enter
entrepreneurship. Many factors determine success. From the lectures that
you'll go through here, you'll find many different models for entrepreneurial ventures, and you should feel
confident that there is not one method we have of predicting who is going to be
successful entrepreneur. There're many possible paths
that can take you forward.