What do you think are the things that can
actually be taught in entrepreneurship? I mean it's not like teaching present
value or finance theory, right? So what is it, what are the things
that if you were to say that have academic content, the academic
content behind entrepreneurship? >> So this is something that
gets me very worked up. >> Okay.
>> Is the [INAUDIBLE] entrepreneurship stuff, right. because we're in this interesting
world where everyone's excited about entrepreneurship. So there's thousands of articles and
news sites you can read and books you can pick up and
personal stories you can hear, and I feel like what you get from a lot of
this is what I consider to be wisdom. Right? >> Yeah.
>> So the lived experiences of entrepreneurs trying to analyze their own
past experiences and deliver them to you. And it's awesome, right? And useful and inspiring, but also has
a downside which is that we know from research that people are not very good
actually recalling their own experiences. They make stuff up, they make themselves
more heroic, they come up with stories. And so the problem is that if you just
rely on that material, you end up just getting the success as enough the
failures and you get very curated answers. And we don't know a lot of
things of an entrepreneurship, we have answers to some of these things. We have worked on how to pitch them. Is done it's absolutely amazing. It gives you answers to
the questions that you have. How to innovate and
what the value of ideas are. How you assemble teams and
what impact that has. The choices that you make in terms
of how you're dividing equity. All of these things matter a huge
amount and we have answers to them. And that's part of what I hope we
communicate when we teach this stuff. >> Mm-hm. >> I think my take on
that is really similar. I think it absolutely can be taught, and
what we see a lot of is these, you know, the top ten ways to pitch or the top ten
things to include in your pitch deck. And what we can teach is that it's
not just about those top ten things, it's about how do you actually apply that? How do you make it work for
your own business? Your own product or service, or
who you are as an individual. We hear in entrepreneurship a lot,
what's your unfair advantage. So thinking about what's
your own unfair advantage, and how do you use that to put
together your own pitch for example. Because maybe you don't
need those top ten slides. You know something that I talk a lot about
in class is that when you're pitching, some people say start with the pain point. Start with how this is really disruptive. And then other people say you
want to start with your team and how your team is well positioned. I think it really depends. If you have a really complicated product,
for example, you want to make sure you can distill what that product is and explain
what that is, because otherwise you're losing everyone and
no one cares about why it's disruptive. Whereas on the other hand, if you're just taking the Uber to
Pakistan, people get what that is, right? So now you want to try and explain and distill why is it
going to work in Pakistan? How are we as this team
uniquely positioned to do so? So I think those are the sorts of
things that we can actually teach. Is how you actually take all of these
things we know about entrepreneurship and make it apply to your own product or
service or opportunity. So that's sort of I think my rational for
why you can absolutely teach entrepreneurship and hopefully this
course will provide students with that. >> My sense is that people who say that
entrepreneurship cannot be taught, I suspect what they have in mind is
that if you teach the principles of entrepreneurship to someone, but
they don't entrepreneurial passion for something, they're not committed
to execution in some way. You cannot be successful. And I suspect that's what they mean. But if you have somebody who
has passion to solve something has an execution plan or can execute. The question is,
what can you teach that person and I think there's a lot
because if people have that then you can teach them certain principles
that help them get there faster or perhaps even many of them fail because
they didn't know a certain something, And so I think what people mean really is that
you can just take a random persona and give them these principles and
say hey, go build something. And it won't happen. It's not like programming in that sense. It's a bit different but I think certainly
it can complement some of those other aspects that are outside
of the knowledgebase, which is around personality and
fashion and things like that. >> Entrepreneurship winds up
being a combination of skill and luck, being in the right place at
the right time with the right idea. We can't guarantee that we can teach
someone to create a unicorn and be successful to that degree, but what we can guarantee is that we're giving
the skills that increase the likelihood. Likelihood of success
>> If there was a formula that we had, we would definitely be sharing that,
but this is how you make [INAUDIBLE] >> I'm not sure we would share it. >> We wouldn't be here around the room,
just empty chairs, right? [LAUGH] That obviously isn't the answer. It requires work from the entrepreneur
to interpret what we have. It requires us to work to make bridges
with what the entrepreneurs need but, we can increase odds, I guess,
as everyone would say. >> I think the other thing that
makes academics uncomfortable about teaching entrepreneurship that the
reference disciplines are really varied. So we're talking about issues
from organizational behavior, issues from information technology,
issues from economics, issues from finance, most of us
prefer our disciplines nice and tidy. And to teach within one nice and
tidy discipline. And in entrepreneurship, you gotta pull the tools from
lots of different disciplines. I think that's one of the other
sources of discomfort. But it's also kind of why
this has been a fun project. Right, because we are all
from different areas and are able to bring to bear our specific
expertise on the single topic of how to increase your Your chances
of success as an entrepreneur. >> Yeah, I think that's really interesting
actually that we all have very diverse sorts of frames for looking at the same,
what we call, entrepreneurship. From a social psychology and
an organizational behavior point of view, it's much more focused on
the individual and the role of executing as an individual, whereas right
From an econ and finance point of view. It's much more around the management
of what's happening and how do you actually have the tool sets. And so I think that's a really interesting
thing that we're all bringing here.