Entrepreneurship is always
a bit scary because taking advantage of opportunities
involves embracing uncertainty. So the most common question I get asked
is whether or not a startup will succeed. If I'm going to have to
take a leap of faith, how do I know that I'm going
to be successful or not? And how do I make sure that I'm doing the right kind of thing
by engaging in entrepreneurship? And unfortunately there's not
an easy answer to this because entrepreneurship drives from uncertainty. It gets its power from the fact that you
are taking advantage of an opportunity that other people have not seen or
haven't taken advantage of, right? You're starting with an innovation,
an idea or a market need that other people haven't
spotted, or that's currently unsatisfied. And your goal is to fill that need. But because that need's unsatisfied,
you can't know the answer in advance. And if the opportunity was obvious or risk free,
somebody else would have done it already. So that means that taking advantage of
entrepreneurial opportunity is inherently about taking advantage of uncertainty and
embracing uncertainty yourself. That doesn't mean however that
there's nothing you can do, that this is a coin flip, because there
are a number of things you can do to reduce uncertainty in your
entrepreneurial venture. The first and
most important thing you can do is plan. So, strategy is all about
dealing with uncertainty. About embracing uncertainty and figuring out how to reduce it by planning
in advance, and lowering your risks. If you think about uncertainty, there's actually three kinds
of categories of uncertainty. Okay, we start off with,
things that we actually know. Facts, information that
is already certain to us. And this category of information
is the lowest risk, right? If we know that our products
going to be accepted, we know that we're going to get that bank
loan, we know that customers are going to buy our thing, that's the highest quality
level of knowledge that we could have. Slightly worse is uncertainty. Uncertainties are categories that we know
it's something we're going to encounter and we don't know how it'll pay out. All right, will we raise funding? We know we need to get funding from
somebody, we don't know from whom. Will everyone who's joined our company
stay at their job in the long term? So those are uncertainties. And then we finally have the most
uncertain category which is unknown risks. These are things that could
happen out of nowhere. The market changes. A new technology is invented and
invalidates all previous technologies. Political turmoil changes the government
of a country you're working with. A sickness forces one of
your co-founders to resign. These are these risks that
happen in every case. So when you think about planning,
it's about trying to reduce uncertainty by moving things that were uncertainty
into known facts, and moving risks into uncertainty so we at least know that
these are possibilities we can plan for. The problem with entrepreneurship is
you have a lot more uncertainty than in conventional planning. So that comic conventional planning tells
you when you're launching a new product or service in an existing business or organization you have a lot of
known knowns, a lot of facts. You you know about your past performance
when you launched ventures before. You know what competitors do, you can
read analyst reports telling you about business or how market segments operate. There's still some uncertainty, you don't
know exactly how customers respond. You don't know exactly how competitors are
going to react to your market entry but you have some idea that these are things
you have to be concerned about. And as far as unknown risks, hopefully
outside of the giant systemic risks everyone has to deal with there
aren't that many unknown risks. In entrepreneurial strategy,
however, you know very little. You haven't built your product. So how do you know whether
people will react? You have no past performance to draw from. So there's a huge range of uncertainties. You know you need to find customers. You don't know what they're
going to look like. You know you're going to
have to give a pitch, but you don't know how that's
going to be received. You know that you're going to
have to raise funding, but you don't know from whom. You know that there's
going to be competition, but you don't necessarily know how
people are going to react. So there's a lot of uncertainties. And there's even more risks because
you don't know a lot about the future. You don't know what the market's
going to look like. You don't know what kind of customer
problems you're going to encounter, what legal problems. There's whole categories of
unknown risks that you're facing. So we can't eliminate all of
these risks and uncertainties but we can by planning identify risks and move
them to uncertainties that we can manage. We can get information
about uncertainties like whether customers will accept your
product and turn them into facts. So we can increase our certain
level of certainty and decrease our level of
uncertainty through planning. And that's not necessarily a bad thing,
because startups need to learn as they go. You need to structure
your startup to learn. And this is based on some
research that I've done, surveying working [INAUDIBLE] companies. And what you see in this chart is
the survival curve for working start ups. So the bottom is years and the left axis is the percent of companies
remaining after a certain number of years. And there's two lines. There's a red line and a blue line. That red line are companies that
changed direction radically from their initial idea. The blue line are companies that
did not change direction radically. What you can see I think is very
interesting which is that the companies that changed direction a lot
which is usually a sign of problems in a larger
more established company. Actually had the same or
better survival rate than companies that knew what they were doing initially
and executed on their initial idea. So what you need to do in your startup is
think how you learn as you go, how you adapt your strategy as you deal with
these uncertainties about your future. And if you do that successfully, as you can see the chart,
you actually will succeed very well. So, the idea that you have to change
direction, that you have to pivot and adapt your approach is actually a part
of what makes startups interesting and more successful than more established
organizations much of the time. Now, how you do this is sort
of an open question academia, there's a lot of techniques out there for
planning start ups. And all of them try and embrace
the idea of uncertainty and try and by having you test your ideas earlier and
often and update your assumptions frequently let you take into account
the fact that you're learning as you go. And you can use any of these
techniques using the data and tools that we're giving you in this class. Right, so we're not going to privilege
one approach over another and say you have to use one method or
another method. These tools are applicable to
many ways of doing planning. So one method you may have heard
of is the lean startup method. So lean startups, there's a book about it, there's quality circles,
it's become a big issue in the press. We don't actually have any academic
evidence that lean is better than other approaches to
launching a startup company. But it's one method that takes
into account uncertainties and has you thinking in advance
about your assumptions, which is something we'll talk about
later in the class, and plan around it. Another approach is
the business model canvas. Again, there's not a lot of academic
evidence validating this as better than any other way of planning your startup,
but it takes into account the idea that you're trying to think
about all of the assumptions and all of the parts of your business and
how they fit together. In this class we'll actually
cover discovery driven planning, which is one of the set of approaches
that you can use that are applicable to other angles like lean for how you
can plan in the face of uncertainty, so we'll give you some tools to do that. But the point is to realize that
there isn't one set of ideas or one set of approaches that is
academically proven to be the best set of ways of planning with uncertainty. So whether you use lean startups,
discovery driven planning, your own technique, you have to take
uncertainties and learning into account. And we'll show you how to do
that as this class progresses.