Hi, David Hsu here, covering a session
on technology entrepreneurship. One interesting aspect of entrepreneurship
in the technical realm is that, sometimes technical change or technology can give
rise to entrepreneurial opportunities. Just to illustrate,
we all know these examples well. The rise of the internet
enables companies, like Google or
Facebook to appear on the scene, or technical advances like the advent of
recombinant DNA affords an opportunity that wasn't otherwise there for companies,
like Genentech to enter into the market. However, just because there's
a technical advance and recognition of that technical advance does
not ensure that you're going to be able to build a commercially successful company. There's a host of other decisions that are quite important in
determining such success. Things like business model design, the choice of resources that you bring
to bear, your ability to recruit key personnel, executives,
the pace of entry and expansion. All these other types of decisions are
quite important, not just the recognition of an entrepreneurial opportunity
that's afforded by technical advance in terms of predicting commercial success. Now, one thing that can
help in addition is particularly in the technical realm when
we talk about technology entrepreneurship, is to staff the founding team or early
executives with people that have both commercial as well as technical expertise,
because being at the frontier of both of those dimensions can help as well, and
academic studies have borne that out. One thing that's interesting and
is in some sense is the silicon valley phenomenon, why is it the case
that there tends to be extreme geographic co-location of our clustering
of technology entrepreneurship? There are a couple of reasons for this. And just as indicators of this,
a third of US venture capital flows to just two regions, Silicon Valley
and the Greater Boston area. And you might wonder,
why is that the case. Well, if you think about it from
an orchestration standpoint, where the labor and capital have
nowhere to focus, it's in these regions where there's a great deal of knowledge
that's important in birthing and involving companies hoping to exploit or
commercialize a given innovation. To give just one specific example of
this at the birth of the United States biotechnology industry, it was not
a coincidence that all the early biotechnology companies were located
geographically in the same places, where the frontier knowledge scientists, who at the time were all located in
preeminent academic institutions, were located, because that's where
the specialized knowledge was. As the industry kind of evolved that geographic co-location,
eased a little bit. But in the very beginning of the industry,
it was no accident that there was this co-location between firms and
knowledge centers. Just by way of giving some motivation in
terms of the economic important of techno entrepreneurship. Here's some statistics about private and
public values. So it turns out that, of all
the companies that have gone public in the 1980's to 2013 time period,
some almost 7900 companies, 36 of those companies were
venture-capital backed. Now, venture-capital backed is not the
same as technology-based entrepreneurship is, but that's a pretty good proxy. And it turns out that
58% of all technology IPOs were venture capital backed. And so, we know that certain anecdotes. Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg. These are all out sized
personalities that are really, just data points in terms of the influence of
successful technology entrepreneurship. There's also second order effects. Once you've created a highly
successful technology company, that has all sorts of downstream effects. So for example Google, after it did
its IPO, initial public offering, it spawned a number of individuals who
were quite wealthy who then became angel investors, that is,
individuals who were making private and individual investments in a host of
other companies as well, as well known, the PayPal Mafia, in which executives, middle managers and
even engineers at the old PayPal then went on to really become investors, founders and other key executives
of other great companies. And, so I don't have to
mention Peter Reed Hoffman. These are all known and well celebrated
ash mores that all fit in this mold. If you think about the technology
life cycle, you could capturize the adoption curve with this
typical s shaped check adoption curve. There are three distinct patterns
associated with this curve. In the beginning,
there's a quite a bit experimentation. Experiments don't go right,
you put in a lot of effort without a lot of progress that
explain rather shallow era ferment. Then things suddenly click into place, you're able to come up with a design that
appeals to the mainstream of the market, you get network effects that
appeals to the mainstream. That really makes a product or
service much more valuable, because of the size of the installed base. Think about Facebook,
which is much more valuable just because all of your other friends
are on the network. That leads to this period of take-off. And then finally, there's a saturation
point, whether because you've tapped out the social network,
the people that your product or service could be addressable towards,
or there's physical limitation. The wind won't blow any faster, so
your sailboat is fundamentally. Constrained by the physical
limitation of the sale. And so this is a typical pattern, in which
technology evolves in commercial space. Now, there's some challenges associated
with those transition points from the era ferment to the takeoff period. And that particular transition point is
really trying to appeal to the mainstream. You could develop a product or
service that's very niche. That really appeals only to the early
adopters or the early innovator, but that's not going to be good
enough to really cross the chasm, as the well-known book by
Jeffrey Moore is titled. To really appeal to the mainstream,
and tap in to the, really, the lion share of the market,
what you might want to be thinking about, particularly more in technology settings,
is how do you become a platform player? How do you induce those network effects
that we talked about before, so that you're much more likely
to be the next LinkedIn. Or Facebook platform, and avoid being disrupted like the Friendsters
or the MySpaces of the world. And what that takes are things like, really reducing the entry cost for
complimentors to join your network. We're really serving an underserved
market space that's been neglected by the industry in so that you can then become the next iTunes platform
that is really adding real value. Now in terms of trying to get to
where you can take out the value, because after all, there's a supply chain
or a value chain here associated with the value creation aspect of
a typical technical innovation. And what you want to worry
about as the innovator or inventor in this chain is,
how large is the slice of the pie? And so let's discuss what determines
the size of the pie you get as one part of this value chain. So there's essentially
these two constructs. Bargaining power and market power. And to the extent that you're able to
increase your leverage as the inventor or as one part of this value chain, the larger is the size of the pie
that you're expected to get. Think about this as how unique
are you in the competitive space of others that could enter into domain,
and that in turn will shape how unique you are, and how much
bargaining and market power that you have. Now one of the drivers of market,
if market and bargaining power really drive the size of
the pie that you get as the inventor or any other player in the value chain,
what shapes that power? Really three things, appropriability, can you control
the knowledge that you've created? You have complementary assets that
are important in taking out the value and enhancing your bargaining power
against others that could also offer a similar function as you. And then, thirdly,
the stage of industry evolution. And in particular is this
concept of a dominant design. And modern dominant design
would be the iPhone. Every smart phone after the onset
of the iPhone, kind of has to look, have the features and
functions of the iPhone. Before the iPhone,
there's many configurations and we could cover the same example as in
the early days of the automobile industry. Before and after the Ford Model T. After the Ford Model T
to be a legitimate car, it has to look like what
we now know as a car. Before the advent of the dominant design,
the Ford Model T, you have all kinds of experimentation and hypotheses
as to what a car should look like. These three factors will shape
the market in bargaining power of a participant along the value chain. Now, let me break up those three and
go into a little bit more detail. Appropriability, what is it? If you can appropriate and control
the knowledge that you've created from an invention,
then you're able to really steer that and control that knowledge for
the use that you want it. To be used for. And it's essentially,
a method of uniqueness and controlling the knowledge that you've
created through intellectual property. In other forms of protection, so that you can exclude others from coming
in and replicating what you've done. Now why in terms of
the complimentary assets, the other parts of the organization,
like expertise in manufacturing or navigating the regulatory landscape or
marketing our sales. How can that be important? Think about a moment of
disruption in an industry. There's a new platform
that comes in place. A new products that comes in place. Just to give you an example,
drug discovery. Before the introduction of bio technology,
done in a very traditional way. There was a period of
ferment experimentation. There's a takeoff period after which
you're appealing to the mainstream. And then, some saturation point in
which the return is leveling off. Now comes biotechnology,
a much different way of introducing drug discovery,
a way in which you have drug discovery. With the edit of bio technology,
the industry and comments were actually shielded from the
competitive pressure from bio technology. Even though the underline science
was quite disruptive, why? It's because the old pharmaceutical
companies control the complementary assets, that is very difficult to
navigate the regulatory landscape. In the United States, it's the FDA,
Federal Drug Administration, as well as marketing, that is,
to the doctors that will inform how the ultimate consumers,
the patients, will take the drugs. And because there was disruption
at the level of drug discovery, but preservation at the level of
the organizational complimentary assets, that was really quite important in
shielding the pharmaceutical company, companies in their bargaining power. These are the new entrance
to biotechnology companies in the face of a new way
of discovering drugs, but not in the way that those drugs
are consumed by the ultimate consumers. Finally, lets get to industry evolution. I talked about dominant design before,
before and after a dominant design. And what's important is if we overlay
the other constructs that we talked about, uniqueness through appropriability as
well as the role of complementary assets, what's interesting here is at the
beginning phases of industry evolution, that is the era of ferment, it's very
important to control the ideas, and less important. The complimentary assets in
terms of taking out the value. But, towards the era of saturation, the relative of these importance
of these forces almost inverts. That is, it's no longer that
important who controls the ideas. But it's quite important who's,
how, those products and services are being delivered through
those organizational assets and complementary assets towards
the end of the life cycle. So in conclusion, we've talked about
how technology entrepreneurship could be a possible unique entry points. Moments of technical disruption,
present entrepreneurial opportunities. There are a whole host of value
appropriation considerations as you think, about how to earn returns
from that innovation. Thank you.