This session is called Push, Pull,
and the Sources of Innovation. Now, why are we talking about innovation? To explain that, we really have to
look at where advantage comes from for new companies. Ultimately, if you don't have advantage, you're not going to be able to
earn profits, as an entrepreneur. So let's talk about where
advantage comes from. First, just for completeness,
is illegal or regulated monopoly. If you have a monopoly,
that's the best form of advantage. There are a few enterprises
that have monopolies. For instance, in China, CCTV,
the national broadcasting company does have a monopoly on media in China and
so that's great. If you have that kind of monopoly
that gives you advantage. I've put it in parentheses here because
for most of you it's totally irrelevant, but I do want to just put it there for
completeness. The other source of advantage that
some companies have is called scale. Meaning you make more of
something than anyone else. And as a result, because of scale economies,
your costs are lower than anyone else. That can also give you advantage. Scale is rarely an advantage for
a new business, so it's rarely relevant to entrepreneurs. Fortunately there's a third
category of advantage, which is doing something that's valuable,
better and different. You might have a differentiated product or
service or have some rare capability
like cost efficiency, safety, software engineering prowess,
some kind of other rare capability. For most entrepreneurs you have to
do something valuable, better and different in order to get advantage. And so this third category of advantage is
the primary focus for the entrepreneur. I define innovation as a new match
between a solution and a need. And so in this graphic I represent
the needs as these targets and the solutions as these arrows. Innovation is creating a new
match between solution and need. In order to create value in innovation
three conditions have to hold. First, the need has to be real
meaning that enough people have a deep enough need that solving
that problem has economic value. So first the need has to be a real need. Second, your solution actually
has to meet the need. It has to address the challenge,
make the pain go away for the customer. And a third condition is that the customer
has to be willing to pay you more for the solution than it
costs you to deliver it. And if you as the entrepreneur can
achieve all three of these conditions, then you can typically create
value through innovation. Now, there are two different ways to
find a match between solution and need. The first is a pull. In a pull, we start with the need,
so, we start with the target, and we basically ask the question,
how can I solve this particular problem? And then as an entrepreneur,
I go searching alternative solutions, maybe ten or more solutions, and I select that solution which best
meets the need at an attractive cost. That's called a pull. Start with a need,
explore lots of solutions, pick the solution that best meets
the need at an attractive cost. In fact,
this is the textbook model of innovation. In fact, this is my textbook. I teach this in my product design class. Start with the need, understand the user
needs, generate alternative solution concepts, select the solution that best
meets the need at an attractive cost. Mostly this is the way we
also proceed in this course. Let me give you an example of the pull. This is Tony Fadell. Tony Fadell was a long time
employee of Apple computer. He worked for Steve Jobs, and
he created several generations of iPods, and iPhones, and iPads at Apple. At some point, a few years ago,
he retired from Apple and he proceeded to build his dream home. When he got near the completion of
this new house, he went shopping for a thermostat. And he went into the home
improvement stores, looked at the existing thermostats,
and said I just can't bring myself to put one of those ugly beige
boxes on the wall of my new house. All the existing thermostats in the market
are ugly, they're hard to program and they're hard to use. So I'm going to start
a thermostat company. That thermostat company became Nest Labs, which was recently acquired by Google for
$3.2 billion. This is a classic example of a pull. Fadell had a problem. He had the problem himself which
was that existing thermostats, were ugly, hard to program and
hard to use. Then he went and created a new solution the Nest Labs
thermostat to address that problem. That's an example of a pull. One of my former students started
a company called Stringr. Her name is Lindsey Stewart, and she had been a producer in
the television news business. And one of the biggest
problems she faced in news was in sourcing high quality
video of breaking news. So for instance, if there were a fire
downtown, she really wanted some video footage of the fire to put
on the evening news on television. And so she would have to contract with
a videographer to go get that footage, and to acquire it, and
then to put it into production. That process was time consuming,
expensive, and uncertain. And so Lindsey recognized this problem and
thought there must be a better way. She created the app called Stringr. And the way the app works is a news
producer can enter the desire for a particular piece of video
footage on a web based interface. And members of the community, freelance videographers,
can look at the request for footage and can go out and capture that footage and
submit it using their mobile phone. And they're automatically paid about
$80 US for that video footage. Stringr has proved to be a great solution to a problem that Lindsay herself had
experienced while being a news producer. This is another example of a pull. It started with the need and
Lindsay went and figured out a solution that
would address that need. But that pull is just one way to innovate. It starts with the need and
then goes and tries to find a solution. The innovator can also push. The innovator can start
with a solution and ask the question, what can I do with this? There must be some need out there
that my solution would address. Let me give you an example of a push. The inventor, Dean Cayman,
created a self-balancing wheelchair shown here in this photograph
meeting with Bill Clinton. The key idea behind the self
balancing wheelchair, called the iBot,
was that it could stand up on two wheels, which would allow the user to be at eye
level with people who were standing up. This product is called the iBot. It was sold by Johnson &
Johnson as a medical device. But once developed,
Cayman asked the question. Wow, we have this amazing technology
to balance a wheelchair on two wheels, I wonder if we could find any
other application for that? And several of the engineers on
the development team said, you know what? I bet you could create a platform
that you could stand on and you could use this self-balancing
wheelchair technology to create a personal transportation device for
anyone, whether or not they were disabled. That insight gave rise to the Segway. That was the origin of
the Segway personal transporter. Shown here is one of the key applications
that the Segway team eventually found. They found that police
officer could use the Segway to get around in environments
in which space was constrained. Where they wanted to be
able to move slowly, and where they wanted a high
degree of maneuverability. So shown here is a police
officer on a Segway. The problem was that once Segway
proved that police officers wanted a mobility device, a low speed
mobility device like the Segway, others could think about
alternative solution concepts. So in fact, once the security market and
the police market was proven and established, competitors entered
with alternative solutions. Shown here is a three wheeled
product from the company T3 Motion. Now a three wheeled personal
transporter is much less complex and much simpler than a device
that balances on two wheels. And so T3 was able to sell this
product at lower prices and with greater performance than the Segway. So if we go back to the three questions
that have to be answered in order for value to be created,
the Segway identified a real need for police officers to get around. In fact, the Segway met that need so
it satisfied criterion two as well. But what they found was that they
struggled with criterion in three. Is the customer willing to pay more for
the solution than it costs to deliver it? One of the key problems is that they
didn't adequately consider what the alternative solution concepts could
be that could address that same need. Eventually Segway in fact introduced its own three wheeled
version of its scooter shown here. Again the three wheeled configuration is
a lower cost, higher performing solution that addresses that same need for
police officers to get around. The risk with the push approach
to innovation is that you fail to consider all of the possible solutions
to the need that you've identified. The innovator who pushes,
starts with an existing solution and often only considers whether or not their solution will meet
the need of the target market. That turns out to be a necessary,
but not sufficient, condition. The innovator also has to consider,
what would a rival do? What would a rival do who took a poll
approach, who started with the problem? And tried to identify many
different solution concepts, and picked the best one. And so if you engage in the push approach
to innovation, a very important discipline is to say how would a competitor approach
this problem taking the poll approach. If a competitor were starting from
scratch, and addressing the problem of mobility for police officers,
what solution might they come up with? That logic would probably lead you
to conclude that a three wheeled solution is superior gives better
performance at a lower price. And would suggest that you should probably
pursue the three wheeled solution rather than taking your existing
two wheeled approach and applying it to the target market. I've talked about two approaches to
a new match between solution and need. One is a pull,
where we start with the need and then create a solution
in response to the need. The other is a push, where we start
with the solution and go look for a need that it can address. But there's another flavor of push that I
just want to describe for completeness. An example would be the Wright
brothers and heavier-than-air flight. When the Wright brothers achieved
the first flight at Kitty Hawk in 1903, they didn't have a particular
customer in mind. There were no customers clamoring to fly
around in heavier-than-air aircraft. They had a passion for flight,
there was broad consensus among everyone really who thought about it
that it would be an amazing thing if humans could fly like birds, but
there was no specific market to it. So, to that extent,
flight was pushed onto the market. It was pushed by enthusiasts
who had a dream of flying without any particular
market need in mind. Now what happens is that
once that artifact, once that approach shows some promise,
people start to imagine commercial applications and a whole industry
may develop around the technology. But initially the solution
is pushed onto the world without any particular
application in mind. So just for completeness, I want to suggest that
that's another approach to innovation. It's another flavor of push. It's going to not be terribly
relevant to most of you. Very few of you will be going and inventing entirely new
categories of technology, but I do want to recognize it as another
way that innovation happens in society.